The key story is tech boom and that's
going to be the most important.
>> The market can still go up.
>> I can't just tell you to sit here and
hold your nose and sell.
>> The question mark around potential
bubble euphoria does continue to build
up.
>> We have to be wary that it's not going
to last forever.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, NASDAQ futures slide.
High-flying tech stocks in South Korea
plunging more than 10% following an ugly
3-day market round for newly minted
SpaceX heading into quarterly earnings
from Micron due out later this week.
Those numbers just a day away.
>> And there clearly is a lot of
nervousness given the fact that Micron
is up 880% over the past 12 months. And
there's nervousness more broadly
throughout the entire tech sphere just
because there is a hope and a prayer
that the demand for the most expensive
AI products will continue which has been
part of what's fueled the semiconductor
bet. Now there's some push back you're
getting from certain clients. Can that
continue with the same profitability
from the uh semiconductors? That seems
to be some anxiety.
>> We've talked about this massive wealth
transfer from the hyperscalers to the
chip players. Look at the push back
you're seeing to the big spenders right
now. Microsoft Meta in bare markets.
Amazon Alphabet down double digits in
just a month or two. Some big push back
emerging
>> and Dan Curtis from the Bloomberg
television team put out a great chart
talking about how the hyperscaler stocks
have directly correlated with the amount
charged for each token that uh companies
are spending to try to use large
language models. You've seen places like
Uber push back on the cost of what these
tokens are uh really amounting to. So if
people are starting to look at the
practical uses, how much are they going
to push back on some of the most
expensive aspects that have fueled and
packed the coffers of the pepper
scalers?
>> I briefly spoke to Dan Ives this morning
who's talking about he thinks all of
this bubble concern is stemming in South
Korea because SKHX overtook Samsung. He
says a lot of cultural issues with this
and it's a little bit of a psychological
issue. He said it's like basically the
Yankees doing better than the Mets in
October. And that is why there's all
these fresh bubble concerns in the
market right now, even though he doesn't
agree with it and pushes back.
>> It's 602. It's not even 602.
>> Just taking champs, taking I'm quoting
I'm quoting Dan. But
okay, whatever.
>> It's up. Yeah, right. That's right.
>> Jeez, you two already two minutes into
the program fighting over sports.
>> I mean, she broke she went there. What
we doing baseball for?
>> I mean, I'm quoting Dan Ives and I think
it puts into perspective what's going on
in South Korea.
>> Spect everybody live TV. Okay,
>> we good. We're good. Futures negative.
We're down by 2.5% on the NASDAQ. On the
S&P 500, down by 1.2. Check out dollar
yen. We're talking about a 10% move over
the last 12 months on a currency pair.
That's a big move. We're talking about a
40% plus move over the last 5 years. 161
on dollar yen. and the prospect of
intervention.
>> Yeah, with a discussion with the foreign
minister and Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson overnight, this is potentially
reaching the weakest level for the yen
going back 40 years. What kind of
intervention could they uh engage with?
And frankly, what would it do? I think
that they blew some $72 billion earlier
this year trying to intervene with the
yen and that was evaporated within a
couple of days. So, at a certain point,
what can they do other than just to hike
rates more significantly? One thing is
that they said that this meeting was a
follow on on the G7, maybe to temper
some concerns, but at the same time said
that they would be willing to quote take
bold steps on currencies if needed and
that they align on foreign exchange
policy. So that obviously gives a little
bit more of risk momentum that
potentially they could intervene.
>> Dollar yen coming in about a tenth of 1%
so far this morning. Let's get some good
news as well. Crude, Brent and WTI
comfortably in the 70s now. WTI at the
moment about 73. Brent crude around 77.
Yet still the rate hike debate getting
extra fuel from several Fed speakers
including Goulsby in just the last 24
hours.
>> Yeah. Coming out and saying look this is
a real problem. They haven't hit their
inflation goal and really leaning into
this idea of forward guidance not
necessarily being the panacea seeming to
support the new Fed chair Kevin Worsh as
he talked about how inflation is quote
going the wrong way. If you get all of
the Fed members lining up behind Kevin
Worsh, not only with respect to a
hawkish tilt, but also with respect to a
lack of communication or forward
guidance, that will be pretty powerful.
When it comes to oil, we are seeing
prices continue to slump because not
only is the straight of Hermoose open.
Yesterday, the US Treasury, we haven't
seen this in decades, is allowing
Iranian crude to hit the oil market.
Even US refiners likely won't happen,
but US refiners could buy Iranian oil,
something we have not seen since 1991.
>> Bren crude 77 this morning. Yields lower
across the curve as well. Two's down for
your 2-year at 418. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Julian Emanuel of
Ever as tech stocks slump. We'll speak
to Jayati Balawaj of TD Securities with
the yen hovering near a 40-year low and
Pierre Farugu of New Street Research as
SpaceX shed $600 billion in value in
just three sessions. We begin this out
with stocks sliding as the tech selloff
deepens. Julian Emanuel of Everore
remains constructive, writing, we remain
steadfastly bullish, led by AI names and
themes. Stocks remain on course for 7750
and the 9K bullcase is still
operational. Julian joins us now for
more. Julian, good morning.
>> Good morning. sounds somewhat contrarian
enough that a few days we've had
>> Well, I I first I want to say is given
the sports intro, we should start
talking about Messi again, which we were
doing uh prior to the top.
>> Make some time for that a little bit
later.
>> Fine. Fine.
So I liken this to the beginning of the
year when you started to have the
accumulated worries around uh software
and the the initial concerns around debt
which obviously the debt pile has gotten
much larger which earnings are
supporting and you got this intense
negativity around technology stocks and
we felt like we were contrarians coming
into the beginning of 2026 sticking with
the call and frankly uh you know we saw
the pro uh progression into the most
hedged position we had ever seen in 30
years at the lows in March and the
market isn't hedged to that degree to be
sure but the skepticism is there and
frankly when you think about it you're
just sort of transitioning this wall of
worry away from the malign effects of
high oil and into the potential concerns
around supply and uh less transparent
monetary policy.
>> So you say the bull case is operational
yet we started the program by pointing
out a couple of names. The likes of
Microsoft and Meta deep into bare
markets now. Can you have 9K on the S&P
operational so to speak without those
names participating in any way, shape or
form?
>> Mathematically you can't. Okay. And and
when you look at it the chip names um
you know have done a great deal of the
heavy lifting. you will need a refreshed
uh uh attitude towards the MAG7. Um and
we think that that comes in time and if
if you look at it over the course of
this bull market uh now almost three
years old there have been certain
periods of time where essentially
earnings and price have you know caught
up to each other and we think that's one
of these periods in in these larger
names and that you will have price start
to advance once more.
>> What will it take for people to have a
refreshed attitude about the
hyperscalers?
uh it will likely be uh a little bit
more churn, a little bit more
volatility, a little bit more
negativity, and then ultimately the
proof of the pudding. That was the proof
of the pudding that caused the this
furious rally to begin with in April and
May, earnings. You're going to see good
earnings.
>> Are we starting to see the beginnings of
push back from the adults in the room,
the bond investors saying, "Hold on a
second." And we're talking about this
particularly with SpaceX not necessarily
leading off the entire selloff but not
helping exactly this company that just
IPOed coming back to market of $20
billion. It's investment grade even
though it's been burning cash and it has
you know a prospect of getting to the
moon literally and beyond. How much is
this the beginning of something that's
important to watch? Well, again, this is
the point where we will figure out how
supply and demand interact because
clearly the message is, well, you IPOed
and maybe you should have waited at
least till you got included in the
NASDAQ 100 uh before marketing uh debt,
but here we are. Um and and and to us
again when you look at the market
action, it's just a much more
significant volatile churn. And again
with that name in particular,
you're still comfortably above the IPO
price. So I mean, you know, they may
send people to the moon and to Mars, but
stocks don't go to the moon and Mars
indefinitely.
>> For now, at least we're down another 4%
the pre-market. headline hardly talked
about small caps record highs. What's
going on there? The small caps move
which is where the outperformance has
been so far today. So it during the
course of the entirety of this bull
market, small caps have been the default
short for active managers and that
really kind of uh faded as the year
started again partly as a function of
the concern around technology that
started the year but more uh preiently
about this fact that we may be having
agitation about where the short end of
the interest rate curve is going to go.
But guess what? The long end is
incredibly well anchored around 450. And
oh, by the way, the labor market is it's
adjusting. And all of those are
positives uh for small caps as is uh the
price of oil. And then last point here
is that again this tends to be around
the Russell rebalance the time where you
get your maximum small cap
outperformance. We wouldn't be surprised
uh by a little bit of reversion as the
third quarter starts.
>> I understand small caps will like the
depression we're seeing in the oil
prices a bit softer. But what about the
fact that the Fed is weighing raising
interest rates?
>> Well, again, I think and this has been a
lot of our conversations is that there
tends to be this glass half empty view
of where the Fed is going. Okay. Uh but
but if you think about the one thing
that Worsh did that in our mind is a
very distinct positive is he absolutely
established the concept of Fed
independence. Okay, we've been worried
about that essentially since 2018. We
are no longer worried about that. And
and this is a contrarian point of view,
but that 99 vote in a lot of ways does
Wars a favor. if he needs to raise
rates, he's got the cover to raise
rates.
>> Then there's also some good news with
regards to the potential for rate hikes.
The fact we're not talking about labor
market weakness anymore. The way that a
lot of people on Wall Street are framing
the potential for hikes right now is
taking back the insurance that was taken
out last year and the year before
because of the weakness that emerged in
the labor market. It's the firming up of
the labor market that's allowed them to
focus on the inflation side of the
mandate. Now, I know that for markets
that might not be good, whatever. But
for the economy, the signal you're
getting from the economy is a green
light to address the inflation situation
because you don't have to worry about
the labor market in quite the same way.
Got to say that's kind of good news.
>> That's the reason why you're not seeing
stocks sell off in response to this.
That's the reason why you're seeing some
of these small caps outperform. I will
add though what Juliet is talking about
here is fascinating, which is by
potentially hiking rates, they're easing
the policy rate on the long end, which
is essentially what you've seen. They've
anchored the long end of the yield curve
which has actually helped ease financial
conditions for a number of companies
>> if you're looking to borrow to buy a
house for instance.
>> Correct. Which is exactly what people
point to as a potential weakness in our
economy.
>> Futures right now erasing some of the
losses this morning. We're down by about
1.2% on the S&P. Julian Emanuel of AOR
will stick with us. We'll get some World
Cup commentary from him in just a moment
as well. Let's give you an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Vonyie Quinn has more.
Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey, good morning John. Iran is trying
to sell oil to Asia's largest buyers as
the US sanctions waiver takes effect.
Thran is eager to find a wider range of
buyers and to clear oil currently in
tankers with at least 80% of the volume
on the water not having a clear
destination.
SpaceX shares declined for a third
straight day, falling to its lowest
level since the company's first day of
trading and are raising more than $600
billion in value over the same time.
Shares now on track for a fourth day of
declines, dipping below SpaceX's first
day's opening price of $150.
In sports, Lionel Messi is now the
all-time leading goal scorer in World
Cup history after missing a penalty shot
against Austria. Messi scored twice to
power Argentina to a two-nil victory. He
now has five goals in two games so far
in the tournament and has 18 all time in
his World Cup career. That is your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Bonnie, thank you for the update. 39
years old tomorrow playing elite
football. It's just amazing to watch
Jillian. I was getting goosebumps
watching this guy yesterday score those
two goals. Just absolutely phenomenal.
Still hungry. That team is an absolute
unit. A unit full
>> of assassins.
No question. I mean it's greatness is is
is something to behold. Really is.
Totally.
>> You really do feel like you're watching
that, experiencing that at the moment.
Ah, I mean honestly, you know, when I
was 39, I couldn't do that. But now,
>> I was watching that yesterday thinking
early 40s, not too much older than him.
>> Oh my god. How's
>> he still doing this?
>> Yeah. I mean, honestly, he is absolutely
a beast. Maybe it's just, you know,
something in the water.
>> Let's see what Ronaldo's got a little
bit later. Up next on the program,
leading in quantum.
Quantum Technologies represents the next
generation of innovation across
computing, sensing, and networking.
We're already the leader by a lot, and
we're going to be now the leader by a
lot more.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall down in Washington DC,
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
the cost me down 10% at the close.
Equity futures this morning negative by
1.3% on the S&P 500 on the Nasdaq down
by 2.55
on the Russell coming off record highs
down by 1.5% so far this morning. into
the bond market. Crude lower, yields
lower two. Two's out to 30s. Two's down
by four at 418. Goulsby of Chicago
sounding somewhat hish in the Fed speak
we got in the last 24 hours. Governor
Waller not offering anything. President
Williams the next one to watch coming
out of New York.
>> Yeah, I was looking at Governor Waller's
speech and I'm thinking like really none
of us care what you think about the
dollar and the role of the dollar over
the next 20 years. I mean, we care.
>> Chris, if you watch this morning, I
mean, great speech. Fantastic. Carry on,
please.
All right, I'll leave that there. But
meanwhile, Goulsby actually did come out
and started talking about how inflation
has been well above target, has been
going in the wrong direction and also
again was sympathetic to this view that
maybe people speak too much and forward
guidance can sometimes be uh more of a
problem than is actually helpful.
>> And our governor Waller tunes in around
now. So, good morning. Some of us enjoy.
>> I think it's great. I just think that
that's not what we were looking for just
because we all want to hear what you
have to say about inflation. So, Chris,
please come join us. noted he's
scheduling the speech right now and the
appearance crude as I mentioned we're
down by 0.577
on Brent talks go on and on and on the
barrels are moving that's what people
are focused on we've got some waiverss
Iranian crude they're going to be moving
Iranian barrels the US refiner is going
to buy Iranian barrels
>> don't know yet but but legally it looks
like they are going to be allowed to
consider
>> in terms of this license until the end
of August when the 60-day this period is
up for yeah it's it it actually is wild
to think that US refiners could actually
start purchasing Iranian crude. Do I
think that's really going to happen?
Probably not. It might extend their
customer base outside of China to other
countries in Asia, but they have a
waiver now to pretty much sell to
anyone. Other issues might come up like
EU has sanctions on Iran. So maybe the
European Union is going to be a problem
for them, but right now not
>> WTI this morning down by a third. We're
at 73. Let's focus on Washington DC.
Anna Savan is this morning leading in
quantum.
>> Quantum technologies represents the next
generation of innovation across
computing, sensing and networking with
enormous significance for our country's
economic growth. We want to keep that
positive momentum going. In America,
we're already the leader by a lot and
we're going to be now the leader by a
lot more.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
president signing executive orders to
boost US dominance in quantum computing.
The administration announcing major
equity stakes in nine quantum computing
companies just last month. Blimp's Tyler
Kendall has the latest. Good morning,
Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, that
announcement last month came alongside
$2 billion worth of funding and means
that the US government now has equity
stakes in more than 20 private
companies, which the Trump
administration says is all about
bolstering US national security. But at
the time of the announcement, the US
Commerce Department told the Wall Street
Journal that it was quote spreading out
its bets among these nine quantum
computing companies and acknowledged
that it could take some time to pan out
because analysts tell Bloomberg News the
industry has made some pretty major
breakthroughs recently, but is still
working to overcome some pretty large
challenges to actually use the
technology at scale. The simplified idea
here is that quantum computers, which
are capable of solving problems much
faster than traditional ones, complement
the advances that we're seeing in
artificial intelligence, which is part
of why the president put out these exe
executive orders yesterday. One of which
would seek to have the federal
government work alongside private sector
companies to build a supercomput that
can do scientific research by 2028. And
the second executive order was geared
towards bolstering against cyber
security risks. John, we saw some pretty
significant investment of course from
the private sector and executives
yesterday from IBM and Alphabent joined
the president for the signing. You also
of course heard President Trump talk
about the idea that this is all going to
be incredibly instrumental in helping
the US compete when it comes to China.
>> Tyler Kenner with the latest in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. IBM and
the pre-market up by 4%. Judah Emanuel
still with us. Julian, we have a new
whale in the tech sector and it's the US
government. How are you thinking about
that?
Well, look, I again there's the concept
of picking stocks and and getting
national champions and you've seen it
with a number of uh of names uh you know
very old line US technology names. Um
you know in the bigger picture anointing
winners and losers has its own issues in
terms of uh the government level. But uh
frankly the fact that the government is
as you know forcefully behind the AI
revolution as it is is a positive in our
mind for investors broadly.
>> Well we see this administration do it
with Intel and a number of rare earth
mineral companies. Do you just have a
list of potentially the next company the
US government might take a stake in and
then it's the stock is off to the moon?
>> We did that a number of months ago. I I
would say it was very wellreceived.
um and uh certainly worked. But again, I
I think we're far enough along uh and
again, this is also part of the the
investment problem in general that when
you look at at the major sectors, it's
now 58% of the S&P 500, the top 10
stocks, 40% of the S&P 500, that there
is a little bit of psychological
crowding out in trying to find uh
companies with smaller market caps.
>> But the heavy hand of the US government,
does it distort the market?
classical economics would tell you that
it does. Okay. But again, I go back to
this idea that the bigger picture in
terms of of, you know, making sure that
the US is front foot versus the rest of
its global competitors in technology is
a positive. There's also a sense that
there's a rolling ball of money that is
racing to the next corner, the next big
thing that could potentially take off as
this buildout in tech continues and that
people aren't sure what the ultimate
goal is, what the ultimate form of AI is
going to take in terms of the way it's
displayed throughout economies. At the
same time, it's just racing to get
there. Whether we see it in SKH and
Samsung or whether we see it in the uh
in the semiconductors in the United
States, how does that destabilize
markets? I mean, how much is that
something that you're watching? Well, it
it it just shows you that volatility
works both to the upside and the
downside. And actually for us is very
interesting is is and and the reason we
don't think we're in a bubble right now
is because for the last six weeks
clients have been asking how do we hedge
AI? How do we deal with the fact that
the AI trade is everything? It now
dominates emerging markets. It's changed
the relationship of gold as a hedge.
It's changed the relationship of bonds
as a hedge uh versus uh stocks. And and
our answer is actually this is a very
interesting time. On a day-to-day basis,
there's a larger universe of stocks in
the S&P 500 that are moving inversely to
the S&P day in and day out. We call them
negative beta names. Um that really act
as a portfolio diversifier. People are
looking for reasons to hedge yet stay
invested.
>> Are stocks the best hedge to stocks
versus bonds being a good hedge to
stocks in this environment?
>> Well, in in an environment where we're
concerned about higher inflation broadly
on a sustained basis, history tells you
that stocks are the best head.
>> Can you describe those stocks? Where do
we find those stocks?
>> They are across, you know, an entirety
of of industries. Energy obviously in
the the the narrative of this entire
year has basically been energy moving
inversely to the S&P 500 but you also
see see it in consumer names you see it
in utilities and of all the strange
places you actually see it in select
financials in our mind that is
definitely different behavior.
>> Yeah. What do you make of that? The
banks trade because they were meant to
be the big beneficiaries of all of this
technology.
>> I think again what it is is sort of a
preference. I remember years ago at a
different shop, our oil analyst said to
me in the midst of a massive rally in in
oil, when are my stocks going to start
rallying? And I said, they're going to
start rallying when they start selling
technology. Okay? And so so when I think
of financials, that's likely going to be
the outcome when we take some chip. If
you look at yesterday, financials traded
very well in a in a negative tech tape.
And that's kind of uh the narrative.
>> Jillian, good to see you as always.
Thanks for dropping by on tech on a
World Cup. Julian Emanuel of AOV with
equity futures down about 1.2% this
morning on the S&P 500 stack. A key
question is going to be Micron right
coming out tomorrow and can they
continue to deliver with their plans for
the most expensive chips are those hopes
and dreams of powering the race to space
and beyond.
>> You don't sound convinced Brammo I have
to say
>> I mean 880%. You know it's pretty good
for now.
>> Coming up on the program we'll catch up
with Jaba Banuage of TD Securities as
the yen near a 40-year low.
Equities
declining this morning. We're down by
1.3% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ, tech
stocks under pressure. We're down by
2.7. Declining to start the week
following two weeks of gains on the S&P
500. Within the S&P, notable loser in
the last 24 hours. Alphabet under
pressure. Some key talent departing for
the likes of Anthropic. We can touch on
that story a little bit later. Outside
of the index, SpaceX not exactly helping
the tone around tech stocks yesterday or
this morning for that matter. In the
bond market, check out the front end of
the yield curve. Twos at the highest
level in more than a year at the close
as of yesterday. This morning, we're
down by four basis points. 418 on a
2-year as we get more and more Fed
speaks supporting the idea that maybe
we're moving towards rate hikes of this
Federal Reserve.
>> Yeah, Chicago Fed President uh Austin
Klesby coming out yesterday saying that
inflation's moving in the wrong
direction. We see now a 98% chance of a
Fed rate hike by September. That is
before the midterm elections most
notably. So interesting kind of timing.
And we saw the 10-year real yield reach
the highest level in a year yesterday.
So you look at all of these confluence
of events, you start wondering, is this
going to draw people back to the bond
market this morning? Yes, it is.
>> It's kind of interesting, isn't it?
We've talked about this a few times over
the last month. How dependent or
independent is this Fed call on what
happens with crude? And yet we've gone
from triple digits on crude down into
the 70s and still rate hike bets are
firming they're not fading and that
tells you this is more than just about
energy.
>> There are two aspects here. On one hand
they're lag effects from the energy
experience and the idea that some of the
deliveries haven't come uh for a while
and people are expecting that to
continue but inflationary inputs have
been increasing from a whole host of
different areas in particular from those
expensive semiconductors that SKHEX is
maybe pulling back on. So some of these
inflationary pushes have come from far
beyond the oil trade and that's what's
getting people nervous.
>> Bren 7764 this morning. Let's finish on
the FX trade. The currency pair of the
moment dollar yen big move in the last
12 months. Major move in the last 5
years. Dollar yen this morning 161 very
close to 40year lows for the Japanese
yen and very close apparently to
intervention from the Japanese and maybe
in coordination with the US.
>> And this comes after a phone call that
you had the Japanese finance minister
have with the Treasury Secretary. a
follow on of a conversation they had
recently at the G7 when it comes to that
meeting in France and this is what the
quote the finance minister said that
they agreed to take quote bold steps on
currencies if needed and said the
nations are increasingly quote aligned
on FX policy so now everyone is on high
alert that potentially you could see
this coordination and some sort of
intervention or right now is it just
strictly rhetoric to try to have the jaw
boning do the work
>> just a little bit of yen strength in the
FX market this morning that's the cross
asset Price action 3 hours away from the
cash open. Let's get you some single
names, some morning movers. Yahihara has
more. Hey, Yahihara.
>> Hi, John. The tech selloff is hitting
some of this year's biggest winners the
hardest. The chip and memory names like
Micron, SanDisk, and Intel all falling
sharply in the pre-market. And it
mirrors what we saw in South Korea where
memory names led the 10% selloff on the
Cosby, particularly SKH Heinix. There
was this report out there uh saying that
it may slow um its AI memory business
shifting to DRAM uh and that is sparking
fresh concerns about demand just in time
for Micron earnings tomorrow. So
dramatically raising the stakes for that
name which is down 9% in the pre-market.
Uh meanwhile the tech selloff is also
hitting uh the newest entrant to the
public market. SpaceX shares are falling
four and a quarter% on track for a
fourth straight session of losses.
Yesterday alone wiped out $400 billion
in market value. Uh the biggest one day
lo the second biggest one day loss in
stock stock market history. And if we
maintain these levels, SpaceX will open
with a market value of below $2
trillion. But I managed to find one
bright spot in tech and that is IBM.
shares are up three and a4% and it's
really on three um positive
developments. First off, it announced a
partnership, a cyber security
partnership with Open AI. It picked up
an upgrade by analysts over at JP
Morgan. Uh and as Tyler mentioned
earlier, its CEO received high praise
from President Trump at a White House
quantum event yesterday. John
>> stock up 3% in the pre-market. Yahara,
thank you. More from Yhara in the next
hour. On our radar this morning, the US
granting Iran a 60-day license to sell
its oil on the global market as peace
talks press on. The measure marking the
most sweeping roll back of Iranian
sanctions in decades, unlocking billions
in potential revenue. But Tehran
elsewhere, Apollo imposing another cap
on withdrawals from its private credit
fund for retail investors, limiting
redemptions to 5% of outstanding shares
after investors aimed to pull nearly 17.
And finally, Southbank founder Masayoshi
Sun saying there's little merit to the
idea of building data centers in space,
dismissing one of the key ambitions for
Elon Musk and SpaceX. Some pointing to
the high cost of the concept, saying the
AI race will be won on the ground.
>> He who strikes first wins. These are
some of the uh the incredible wisdoms
that we heard from Masio Masayoshi's son
as he talked about this talking about
Elon Musk as an incredible investor but
saying ultimately you have to focus on
what's going to happen in the next few
years not the next few decades and the
AI race will be won in the near term not
the medium and longer term which is
clearly the ambition of SpaceX. Softbank
hasn't always been right although they
have been a huge backer of a lot of the
technological prowess that we have seen.
really interesting to see this cohhere
with the fall below $2 trillion for
SpaceX. Oh my goodness, how will we
survive and whether that will continue
its descent or whether people will
continue to rally around this name?
>> It's not Elon Musk, it's also Jeff Bezos
who feels that they can build these data
centers in space. It's a place that you
can get cheaper compute, you can rely on
solar power to do all this, then it
beams back to us here on Earth. In the
past, he's put at 10, 20 years. I know
recently he said the timeline very
unsure of but it's not just Elon Musk
who thinks this. I actually once caught
off with Jeff Bezos's brother who told
me it was either high school or college.
He literally wrote a paper about how he
wanted to start Amazon to build a
company so that he was able to have all
this money and knowledge to then put
data centers in space. Something these
people have been thinking about for
decades. It didn't just all of a sudden
happen in 2026 when everyone's obsessed
with comput.
>> The real passion project for these big
tech players. I did that in high school
too. Who didn't write some paper?
>> I was very focused on football.
>> Yeah, I don't think so. Yeah, I don't
think that was I mean I I actually
admire the people who have these passion
passionate visions since very long.
>> The thing is they actually do really
think it's realistic. I know it sounds
out there, but they truly believe it's
realistic and they are working on that
every single day and it's part of the
reason why Blue Origin decided not to do
commercial flights anymore.
>> Look, when it comes to Elon Musk, we've
been proven wrong time and time and time
again. The focus today, that $20 billion
debt offering. should get some details
of that a little bit later.
>> Yeah, some push back because on one hand
you can talk about the hopes and dreams
being baked into the stock price. You're
potentially compensated for that because
you've got the upside as well as the
potential downside. With bond investors,
they just want their money back. And so
if you're looking at someone who is
hoovering up as much cash as they can
and borrowing a lot to do it, you have
to start wondering how about that
payment back a certain time later and
what do I get to be compensated for
that?
>> Pretty vanilla and very boring, isn't
it?
>> Exactly. Well, I mean, I kind of like
that
>> you don't get the upside in the same way
to your point.
>> Yeah, but you want your money back. So,
it's about counting count cut counting
beans
>> without a doubt. Look out for those
headlines potentially a little bit later
on. Let's talk about foreign exchange.
The yen nearing its weakest level in
almost four decades. Intervention risk
are rising as US Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson and the Japanese Finance
Minister agree to take quote bold steps
on currencies if needed. Joining us now
is Jayati Barawatch of TD Securities.
Jati, welcome to the program. Good
morning. What do bold steps look like?
Can you describe for us what you might
be expecting? Um, thank you so much for
having me. Um, unfortunately, Japan is
running out of options already. This has
been a very tumultuous year. They've
tried everything. They've had Besson do
the soft rate check in January. They've
tried aggressive verbal intervention.
They've tried a real intervention.
They've tried a hike. None of that has
worked. I think credibly it's all about
interest rate differentials which is
where Japan even if they hiked did not
signal credible future hikes or any sign
that they are now on a path to hiking
interest rates more credibly whereas now
you had a very hawkish Fed last week
which sort of threw them in the spanner
because now US interest rates have
clearly risen which is has always been
the pain point for yen. Now I think
their main concern is hopefully that the
the the conversation that leaked out and
I always say leaked with air quotes is
that it does the you know job warning
for them and establishes now maybe 162
as the next 160 but short of the
coordinated intervention the only
durable wave to relief pressure off of
yen is either Japan gives up its very
cautious bias or to their benefit for
some reason US data surprise start
surprising to the downside. side so that
the hawkish pricing for the Fed comes
down a little bit. Short of that, it's
only coordinated intervention which
historically was done during the 2011
earthquake.
>> But this these are not those times and
I'm not sure the US wants to send a
signal globally. We are willing to sell
dollars outright to help out one nation
with a currency when there's no active,
you know, natural disaster or liquidity
crisis.
>> You went there. there are always policy
trade-offs and Japan has decided that
they don't want to go on an ambitious
rate hiking cycle for other reasons. Why
is that our problem and not just theirs?
>> Uh so I think a little bit of it has
been political which is why a lot of
people did start getting into the short
yen trade especially around elections
which is where Bessant helping out Japan
as a very strong ally said that let me
help you out here and let me do the soft
rate check on your behalf. So I think
the similar thing we saw with Bessant in
Argentina last year it seems like he you
know the Treasury market and you know
the head there is showing a little bit
of a more activist approach to this uh
and he's definitely a lot more
geopolitical than previous Treasury
secretaries have been. So I think it
just signals to me that Japan is the
largest holder of US treasuries at this
moment. We've all heard of the
debasement trades you know Asian central
banks wanting to move away from
treasuries. China we know has been
selling for uh you know a long a long
number of years. Japan is now the
largest holder of treasuries. So that
also you know helps you understand that
backdoor relationship quite a bit.
>> Why wouldn't the Bank of Japan just hike
rates more significantly because part of
the reason why you saw the selloff
persist was because they were somewhat
dovish in their rhetoric relative to
market expectations.
>> So there are a couple of things. So
first unfortunately who is more hawkish
on the board was hospitalized. So the
second in charge did the press
conference who is a dove so he sounded
more dovish. Secondly Japan you could
say for conservative reasons and now
also political reasons under the kaichi
who has not always been a strong
advocate of the bank of Japan hiking
interest rates. In fact she comes from
the understanding that you should keep
policy interest rates low to keep
fueling the economy and that should fuel
inflation. So she comes from the
opposite mindset. She's not looking at
it from the fact that bond investors are
now demanding Japan to hike. Inflation
is running, you know, rampant. You have
enough credibility now that wages have
been moving in the right direction for
the last couple of years. Growth is on a
better trajectory. But it's some
political reasoning there why BOJ is
also not moving so aggressively and
ultimately she did stack the board with
doves rather than hawks. I wonder how
much the strength of the dollar and the
newly hawkish turn of the Federal
Reserve is going to pressure currencies
around the world in a way that people
are not expecting. This was more of a
shift than people thought. You are
seeing some significant dollar
strengthening. How disruptive is this
going to be globally? I think that's a
very active debate that Worsh has set up
recently in markets is that what he's
talking about is clearly a move towards
a shift in the bias of the Fed towards
hiking and you can see that uh from the
dot dot as well and also from the
innumer innumerable number of times he
mentioned price stability this time
around. uh but I think the question is
is that coming from the fact that the
Fed members as a whole uh as a board
thinks that neutral rate in the US is
higher which means that the debate that
we've been having with the US is that US
policy rates are in you know restrictive
territory if they think ourstar is
higher then that's not true then rates
have not really been in restrictive
territory so then that actually raises
the long-term you know ourstar
projection and the long-term interest
rate path for the Fed where you could be
like the 375 5 is actually not
restrictive. It's at neutral. Basically,
the second debate is that so right now
there's so much confusion in markets
because Wars has been very very still
guarded with his opinions which is why
markets are now price pricing close to
two hikes followed by some easing next
year which is also very unique. So
there's some mismatch there where
markets think that he's talking about
hikes but it's more shortterm short-term
solution to the inflation risks from you
know the straighter moves but markets
are still expecting interest rates next
year to then come off after the the bump
higher interest rates. So if I think the
the move lower interest rates next year
is the one which if that's challenged if
wars in future meeting signals that no
at 375 we're not restrictive or
potentially he says we're somehow
stimulative because of AI capex I think
that will shape markets that will be a
big move not just in you know hike
pricing this year but next year and that
will be induce a lot of volatility in
global asset prices. Jaty, it's good to
see you as always. Could be quite a
summer. Jaty, you better watch there of
TD securities with the two-year very
close to the highs of the year. Yields
down across the curve so far this
morning. With an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief, Vonnie Quinn has more.
Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Andy Bernham under
pressure to outline an economic plan for
the United Kingdom. He's the front
runner to replace Kier Starmer who
announced yesterday he's stepping down
as prime minister. The BBC reporting two
Labor MPs are considering challenging
Bernon.
Iran says 12 billion dollars of its
frozen funds are set to be released as
part of ongoing talks with the US. Thran
is reportedly set to receive two
installments of $6 billion a piece, but
the US has yet to confirm the Iranian
reports.
Chicago Fed President Austin Goulby
remaining concerned about inflation and
questioning whether the factors driving
up prices are truly temporary. Goulby
calling out a rise in services pricing
quote disturbing and saying pressures
there can often be more persistent and
that is your Bloomberg brief John Vonnie
thank you thank you for the update up
next on the program SpaceX falling back
to earth
>> the key story is tech boom and that's
going to be the most important
>> everybody knew SpaceX was going to be
big
>> demand was off the charts they're
totally overvalued and it's so obvious
>> up next we'll catch up with Pier Faku of
New Street Research live from New York
City you're watching Bloomberg TV.
So, typically when I wake up in the
morning, the first thing I look at is
the Treasury curve. Over the last few
months, I've looked to crude. I wonder
how many of you wake up first thing in
the morning state side and look to this
South Korean equities because so many
people have piled into two names the
Cosby another wild ride overnight
triggering circuit breakers dropping as
much as 12% at one point closing lower
by 10%. And in many ways that sets the
tone for today's session. Equity futures
state side rolling over NASDAQ futures
underperforming on the NASDAQ this
morning. We're down by close to 3%
negative 2.8 so far this morning. Yeah,
and if you look at SK Highix, which is
one of the two names really driving the
Cosby, it's down more than 13%. It
speaks to a concern of how high-flying
some of the performance has been of
these stocks. That any little rumor that
potentially they can't keep accelerating
their earnings to the same degree will
cause the momentum to just fade. And
that is what we're seeing this morning.
>> SpaceX, one of those names under
pressure this morning. SpaceX falling
back to Earth.
>> The key story is back and that's going
to be the most important. But you have
to be wary that it's not going to last
forever.
>> Everybody knew SpaceX was going to be
big.
>> Demand was off the charts. They're
totally overvalued and it's so obvious.
>> Here's the latest this morning. SpaceX
shares dropping for a third straight
day, erasing $600 billion in market cap
as the aerospace chart announced it
plans to sell investment grade bonds for
the first time. Pierre Faragu of New
Street Research maintaining a buy rating
on the stock a 165 price target. Pierre
joins us now for more. Pierre, welcome
to the program. the difference between
correlation and causation. What's the
connection, if there is one, between
that debt offering and this stock
performance?
>> Well, I don't think the depth of
offering is like a significant trigger
on investment sentiment. We we knew
SpaceX had like a bridge loan of $20
billion and was set to refinance it
ASAP.
Same thing for the acquisition of
Anyere, the the owner of Cursor. These
these things were well known. So I I
don't see that as being a direct
connection to be honest.
>> So Pierre, what do you think is the
reason for the underperformance over the
past couple of sessions? Albeit still
above where it first traded or where it
was first sold and albeit still above or
just around two trillion dollars.
>> Yes, exactly. So I think like the
initial reaction of the market was very
positive. There was like a lot of demand
for the stock. Everybody wants to
participate to this dream. What what a
beautiful story. This is space
exploration. This is like throwing data
centers in orbit. Um and these two
things really space exploration storing
the data centers in orbit are two3 of
what makes that stock um worth close to
uh $2 trillion or take like the
valuation above $2 trillion and only
onethird of um the stock in the way we
value um the company really relates to
much more tangible and near-term
um uh businesses which are basically
Starink like the telecom the telecom
business. So you look at sentiment on AI
these days I think investors are
concerned they are hearing about
companies like blowing up their token
budget and raining back on AI spending.
Uh so there is like a negative like a
cautious AI trade around that probably
weights on the stock and then um you
know approaching like very almost
exceeding like $3 trillion at some point
in in valuation of course triggers
triggers profit taking because um
investors know that most of the
valuation is a very very long-term
story. Does it concern you appear that
all of the tech names are kind of
trading in tandem this morning? That
yes, you've got semiconductors down, but
you also have hyperscalers down. You
also have SpaceX down. Even though some
earnings are better than others, there
has been the delivery on some side, even
if you still haven't really seen the
numbers in the likes of SpaceX.
>> Yeah, it's interesting to see that um um
as you say, numbers are probably going
to look very very good. We we're very
very um uh confident like the near-term
outlook for all the tech uh space is
actually looking very very good. The
issue really is sentiment and sentiment
doesn't wait for numbers. That's usually
how it happens. It anticipates numbers.
So sentiment as I said is really about
um you know we've been going through six
months during which like AI font labs
were adding several billion dollars of
additional recurring revenue every week.
Uh, and now we hear like the CEOs of
very large, very tech um, advanced tech
companies like Uber talking about having
to rain back on uh, on AI spending and
that's I think going to cast like a
shroud of of concern and caution in in
um, in the space environment. The good
thing is that as we go through numbers
um they're going to be reassuring but
that's going to be this quarter's
numbers the guys for next quarter and I
think the concern uh might hold on a
longer duration.
>> Pier when it comes to SKHEX and Samsung
this comes at a time when last week
Apple said they were raising prices
because of quote unsustainable memory
shortage. Then why are these companies
lower?
>> That's a very good question. That's
where the market is is being smart. Um,
when uh you hear Apple complaining
basically about memory pricing and
saying, "Well, I'll have to increase the
price of my iPhone because memory prices
are too high." What does that mean? That
means they're going to destroy demand.
They're increasing the price of iPhones.
Less people are going to be able to buy
iPhones and that's going to reduce uh
memory demand. And so memory as a
business overall remains what it is. You
have a certain amount of production
capacity. If you have more demand,
prices go through the roof. And if you
have less demand, prices collapse. And
even if you have like this very strong
demand from AI, you still have like a
very very large portion nearly half
memory demand in volume still comes from
PCs, smartphones, the brother like data
center um and compute demand. And if you
have memory destruction in these
markets, there is a risk that um we see
like a pose in uh in in the very very
high pricing environment that we see at
memory. And when you look at where these
stocks are trading uh trading, you know,
at like double digit multiples of their
coke. So if you forget like the outsiz
profit they're doing at the moment,
stocks in memory are actually very very
expensive. So investors know that and
that makes it makes them very very uh
cautious about it.
>> Yeah. Is that one of the reasons why
you're neutral on Apple? Neutral on that
stock?
>> On on Apple, we're neutral just because
it is very very healthily um valued with
very li limited upside potential. That's
the reason why we are neutral on the
memory stocks. Yes.
>> Yeah. Appreciate it. Thank you, sir.
Pier Faru there of New Street Research
using the phrase demand destruction with
regards to Apple.
>> So that's what I've been thinking about
since he said that. I was thinking, can
I use that excuse with my kids? Can I
excuse it? I'm sorry. It just destroyed
my demand when I saw that ticker price.
I mean, at what point does Apple have
pricing power and at what point can they
pass along the extra costs of memory
chips?
>> Wall Street Journal after they had that
interview did the pricing and the iPhone
18, if it comes out Pro, would cost
$1,299
because of the higher cost in memory
chips. $1,300
for a new iPhone. I mean, that that is
going to be a bit of a tough sell, but
I'm not sure.
>> You know what happened to me? We went to
the Apple store. I mean, must load up
early because ultimately, you know, get
ahead of that. Look, I I don't know.
Let's see if that actually happens.
>> What you actually did
>> you're buying holiday gifts now.
>> Like what I think what I think
>> real inflationary behavior there.
>> Well, to get ahead of it. Yeah,
>> but I don't know that I'm alone.
>> Starts the spiral of prices.
>> You're you're already creating wage
spirals single-handedly. So, there you
go. So, I'll just do the other side.
>> I do my best to do that. Oh, good.
>> Everyone should demand higher wages.
>> I know. Well, that's the reason why
they're going to high.
>> Absolutely.
>> There you go.
>> There you go. Next on the program, Phil
Camper of JP Morgan Wealth Management,
Henry Trace of Vader Partners, Matthew
Whitila of Wellington Management, Neil
Data of Renmack with a very interesting
take on the Kevin Walsh Fed. All of that
in the second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance.
I think the economy has demonstrated its
resilience.
>> The committee is fed up with inflation.
>> We should see the evolution of this
committee moving now into a more hawkish
direction.
>> It is a premature conclusion that we
actually have a hawkish bias.
>> If inflation doesn't stop moving his way
pretty soon, he's going to have to hype.
Period. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance stats right now.
Your price action scores look like this.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 pulling
back following losses in Asia, big
losses in South Korea. On the NASDAQ,
we're down by 2.7%. In the bond market,
yields keep declining, resuming that
decline following a big move higher.
More recently, the two-year closing of
the highest level we've seen in more
than a year. We're down this morning by
three basis points on twos. Encouraged
by this move in crude. Crude comfortably
in the 70s on Brent and WTI. Brent at
77, WTI at 73, just a whisker away from
wiping out the post-war rally. The week
ahead shaping up as follows. More
economic data on deck. We've talked lots
about PCE coming up on Thursday. coming
into view. Micron a day away. That
earnings report taking on more and more
importance as this tech selloff gains
some steam.
>> Yeah. And one of the key questions right
now, especially after the SK high neck
selloff overnight, is are they going to
double down on the higherend AI chips?
Are they going to double down on the
areas of more expensive deployment even
though an increasing number of companies
are starting to push back on the
expenses of artificial intelligence? Can
they keep up? Can they keep up the
profitability? The shares have rallied
880% over the past 12 months. It is a
pretty high bar and people are getting
nervous. At the same time, this is the
transfer of wealth that we have seen in
the markets. Dan Ives just put out his
note following on what I said last hour
didn't mention the Yankees and the Mets,
but he said he views the Cosby selloff
as a pullback breather in a market up
almost 100% this year and also believe
SK overtaking Samsung was a big symbolic
move that caused investors to worry
about this overheated memory chip trade.
But what I go back to my question to
Pierre Farraus, how does that make sense
when Apple's saying we have to actually
increase our iPhone prices because it's
unsustainable when it comes to the
memory trips and being able to get a
handle on it.
>> You mentioned Pierre, we just caught up
with the analyst from New Street
Research just moments ago. He used the
phrase demand destruction. Demand
destruction for Apple and I wonder how
much further out the supply chain you
can talk about that phrase demand
destruction. Does that breathe some life
into the sell-off elsewhere? One chart
that really stood out to me from Dan
Curtis at Bloomberg TV was that the cost
of tokens, the amount that people pay to
use some of these large language models
has gone down in tandem with the price
of the hyperscaler shares. There is a
fear that people don't want to pay for
this. Uber pulling back some of the own
hyperscalers themselves saying, "Look,
stop it with the vibe coding. If you're
not going to have some sort of actual
profitable project, let's not do it."
This to me is some sort of push back. I
do wonder though on the consumer push
back about what you're actually going to
see because so far we haven't seen
nearly as much demand destruction with
higher prices as people expected.
>> Futures down this morning with negative
1.3 on the S&P 2.7 on the NASDAQ. Coming
up this hour we'll catch up with Phil
Campell of JP Morgan with tech dragging
down equities. Matthew Whitiler of
Wellington Management on a 3-day route
for SpaceX and Neil Data of Renmack
warning the Kevin Walsh Fed could pose a
left tail risk to investors. We begin
this hour with stocks sliding as the
latest rotation out of big tech weighs
on markets. Phil Campelli of JP Morgan
Wealth of Management writing S&P 500 and
infoch multiples are both trading below
December levels. It would make sense to
see more cyclical sectors take part in
the second half of the year if we move
away from geopolitics. Phil joins us now
for more. Phil, good morning. Good to
see you, buddy.
>> Morning. Good to see you.
>> What do you make of the nervousness
around the tech trade just in the last
24 hours? Yeah. So, for us, this is a
kind of a normal thing with a market
that has been up so much this year.
However, as I wrote, it's kind of the
opposite of a bubble. A bubble to me
means go pay up for these stocks
indiscriminate of the financial of the
fundamental earnings story. And what
we're seeing on both the S&P and as I
mentioned, the information tech sectors
is that those multiples are lower today
than where we were coming into the year.
It's been all driven by earnings. John,
just and I love this stat. I keep
thinking about this stat given what
happened in in the Cosby overnight.
There's a 30% increase in the supply for
chips and an 80% increase in the demand
for chips. I mean, that was like the
story of me trying to get tickets for
the Knicks for the finals, right? Like
like too much demand, not enough supply.
And I think that's something that that
is what we'll continue to think about.
However, the rotation is is also front
and center. If we're moving away from
geopolitics,
and if rates, in our opinion, we don't
it's a close call, but we don't think
the Federal Reserve is going to move
policy rates this year. I think that
sets up for a nice rotation. Financials
for us is a front and center trade
driven by really good earnings
inflections higher, loan growth based on
a resilient consumer as well as share
buybacks and dividends. Like, it's all
adding up. and financials through
yesterday were negative. That sector was
negative your day compared to some other
sectors. Obviously,
>> I'm curious where you stand on small
caps with regards to the threat of the
risk of rate hikes. We've had a decent
rally.
>> Mhm.
>> Yet today up nicely outperforming record
highs on a Russell at the close as of
yesterday
>> despite the firming up of rate hike bets
in this market. Can we carry on standing
up in the face of that?
>> Yeah, so we'd rather the large cap story
than the small cap. however, of the view
that the Federal Reserve, again, close
call, but won't move rates this year and
that we want to be procyclical. I mean,
everybody was was caught on the nine of
the 18 last week, believed that there
should have been a rate hike. I was more
impressed with their views on above
trend growth for the next couple of
years, right? So, that's kind of a
pro-yclical story for small caps. And as
long as you don't get the Fed rate
hikes, it won't be it won't be bad.
However, we still like the US large cap
story versus small cap. There is a sense
though that if the hyperscalers keep the
capex where it is and you do have the
investment and shares of those names
continue to go up then you're going to
see inflationary pressures that are
going to worry the Federal Reserve.
Don't you see that as something of a
counterpoint to this rotation?
>> Yeah. So that's why it's a close call,
Lisa. And you know, I keep going back.
You I I I totally I totally take your
point on the capex, but I keep going
back to the labor market of where true
inflationary pressures could arise from.
And with wages right now below
inflation, negative real wages and the
quits rate, I I love looking at the
quits rate as part of Jolts. That's for
me a very important indicator. Do I want
to take this job and shove it and go
find another job that has a higher wage?
That quits rate is at cycle lows right
now. So for us, the bargaining power
from the US employee just isn't there.
That will not allow inflation to stick
at these levels. Our view is that we're
going to see peak rates and peak
inflation in the second quarter of this
year, which sets up for a really nice
second half of the year.
>> So uh and I'm glad that you don't want
to take the job and shove it because we
love having you on and I hope that you
say for a very long time. There is a
sense though that there is some push
back from investors starting right and a
little bit whether it's just SpaceX or
whether it's beyond that investors are
getting a little bit nervous about how
much money is getting raised. Does that
make you think that maybe we're at an
inflection point in terms of you know
maybe we're not going to lend you $20
million to go to the moon? 20 billion.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So um that's where the
rotation comes in Lisa. So put it this
way, we write about AI on the like the
the the six months ahead, the three
years ahead and the 10 years ahead,
right? We believe in this trade that's a
structural generational trade. At the
same time though, the rotation trade is
front and center for right now. So yes,
I again that SpaceX for example was four
or five times overs subscribed. There's
still 22.5 trillion dollars sitting in
checking accounts, savings accounts, and
money market funds. Liquidity is
everywhere. Okay. So, and then you add
on top of that the the share buybacks
and there's there's I don't think
there's an over supply of either IPO or
even debt issuance right now. So, I
don't think that's a technical problem.
However, you have to rotate to places
that have underperformed and again
that's where kind of that financials
trade comes in for us.
>> Phil, what do you make of the fact that
Austin Goulby yesterday was talking
about some inflation may be coming off
when it comes to the tariff hit when it
comes to gasoline now is under $4 a
gallon across the United States. But he
pointed to services. The fact that we've
seen it in services, which historically
is pretty persistent, is a little more
disturbing.
>> Yeah. So, I would I would call that a
high class problem, right? It comes from
the fact that you have a consumer that's
more resilient. And I keep going back to
that top 20% of earners. The top 20% of
earners in this country do roughly 50%
of the spending. And they're they only
spend, I don't know, two and a half% of
their income on gas, oil, and electric.
So, I think that's where it's coming
from. kind of that top end high-end
consumer that's keeping consumption
strong. And I and I just and I just
don't believe that service sector
inflation is a problem. I mean I we're
talking about one or two hikes being
priced in that's like lowercase hawkish,
right? That's like like like tinkering
like I I don't I don't see that as a
problem.
>> So you think inflation is only an issue
for the upper cohort of society? know I
think in service sector inflation by
itself is a symptom of an economy that's
actually pretty strong and a consumer
that's pretty strong which will then
lead to the earnings story right nominal
growth drives earnings real GDP plus
inflation so I I I think that's actually
an okay problem
>> so at this point do you think that the
market is pushing back in any way shape
or form because right now it seems like
the market is cheering the idea of rate
hikes in the face of inflation you've
seen lower-end rates come down you've
seen this idea of stocks continuing to
rally the rotation still intact
Where's the push back? Why wouldn't they
want to hike rates? Because right now
the market is saying this is a good
thing and frankly this is actually going
to ease financial conditions for the
people who need it the most.
>> Yeah. So I I So the question is why
wouldn't they want to hike rates at this
point? You know I I I
think policy error is still front of
mind, right? Either way, I I don't think
that they this economy needs a rate cut
for sure, but I think a rate hike at
this point would be of the belief that
inflation was going to continue to
increase into the third and fourth
quarter, which we don't we don't agree
with. I I think it's more of a Fed on
hold. I think that's where they want to
be. Remember where we came into this
year, there was three easings priced in.
So, I think the fact that we're now at
the fact that we're now at at at a hold
is a really good sign for the economy
that it could withstand it. And and and
again, this all kind of goes back to the
fundamental story of growth and
inflation. It's not just inflation. The
growth plus inflation story I think is
going to drive some pretty nice
earnings.
>> You know, and this see I say this as
someone with the luxury of not having to
make a call, but I'm trying to stay
openminded about the Kevin Walsh Fed.
There are some people making a call that
maybe they hike as soon as July.
>> We've got no forward guidance. So people
are filling in the gaps the space on
what they think the Kevin Walsh Fed now
stands for. When I think back to the use
of forward guidance had a lot of
benefits for different central banks. If
I go back to the Bank of England under
Governor Carney when he talked about the
benefits of forward guidance I think at
the time they had thresholdbased forward
guidance whatever he said that it helped
to bind the hands of the committee so
that you didn't get that kind of
descent. And I just wonder if that's the
same reason we've got all these task
force. But if you put all these task
forces together, you can't really make a
call to move policy until the task force
is complete. Now, as things stand a week
on, I don't know who leads which task
force. I don't know how long those task
force go on for. And I find it difficult
to imagine a committee that is
aggressive about hiking interest rates
before those task forces are even
complete through the summer. That's why
I have the end of August circled in my
calendar because at Jackson Hole they're
going to come out and likely have enough
time to have some sort of conclusion
from those task force. The actual time
frame sets it up perfectly because they
said they're going to move quickly and
certainly by the end of the year
probably by September have some
conclusions. So if you think about where
this is lining up that's the reason why
people are looking at September as the
potential for a rate hike.
>> Neil Data joins us in about 30 minutes.
He's going to have his own views on all
of this but it's a question we've asked
repeatedly in the last week. Are we
confusing the lack of guidance for
hawkishness? Do you think
>> and I and I and I think too again the
headlines last week were nine of the 18
wanted some sort of move higher in
rates. But I go back to the 12 like the
12 voting members. And I'm not sure how
many of those 12 really want a rate
hike. And again, if if we're if if we're
sitting here three or six months from
now and oil prices are where they are
and is shaving off elements and and
Anmarie, maybe it's a service sector
story. Who knows? That could be more
sticky. But if if that headline PC
number is coming down because oil prices
are coming down. I just don't know why
they would want to move rates higher.
That's that's not that's not obvious to
me.
>> We'll see. Phil, it's good to see you.
Thank you, buddy. Thank you. Phil Camper
there of JP Morgan Wealth Management
with the odds this morning down three
basis points 419 on twos with an update
on stories worldwide this morning with
your Bloomberg brief Quinn has more. Hey
Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Iran is trying to
sell oil to Asia's largest buyers as the
US sanctions waiver takes effect. Thran
is eager to find a wider range of buyers
and to clear oil currently in tankers
with at least 80% of the volume on the
water not having a clearer destination.
South Korea's Cosby tumbled into the
close Tuesday, triggering circuit
breakers twice. The index ended about
10% lower, marked its worst day since
March 4th. The benchmarks chips giants
SKH Highix and Samsung led the broad
sell-off, both declining at least 11%.
Apollo is once again limiting withdrawal
requests from its largest non-traded
private credit fund. The firm capping
withdrawals at 5% of outstanding shares
after investors asked to redeem nearly
17%. Apollo reporting most requests came
from offshore investors. And that is
your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyie
in about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, championing economic strength.
>> The way we're doing it, we have the
opposite of a depression. Uh we're doing
really well. We're setting records. We
have the strongest economy we've ever
had. Up next on the program, Henrietta
Trace of Vader Partners live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
Stocks down across the board. The follow
on from Asia into Europe into the US
session. We're down by 1.3% on the S&P.
On the NASDAQ, we're down by 2.7. If we
check out the bond market, twos, tens,
and 30s rallying so far this morning.
Under session, we're down by three basis
points on twos to 419 on 10's just south
of 450. And if we finish on crude, crude
doing the White House a bit of a favor
here. We're down to 77 on Brent, 73 on
WTI. Under surveillance this morning,
championing economic growth.
>> The way we're doing it, we have the
opposite of a depression. Uh we're doing
really well. The numbers are incredible.
The oil is at a level that nobody's ever
seen before. Oil prices are way down. I
think they're very comparable to what
they were. We're setting records. We
have the strongest economy we've ever
had.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
president aiming to further his message
of economic strength in a battleground
district in Pennsylvania today as voters
see rising prices going into the
midterms. Lick's Tyler Kendall joins us
now from Washington with more. Hey,
Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Well, this will mark
President Trump's first public event
outside of Washington since the
ceasefire was extended over the weekend.
As you heard President Trump there, the
conflict in the Middle East has only
supercharged the conversation around the
economy, which does still remain, of
course, the top issue for voters as we
head into November. We are expecting
President Trump to say that a potential
resolution to the war will help bring
down costs and also tout his domestic
manufacturing push as he's set to visit
a key industrial base and a Mac trucks
facility. But a new Fox News poll
underscores the headwinds that the
president is facing with only 12% of US
voters saying that they feel that they
are getting ahead financially. Now,
historically, polling data typically
shows us that Democrats have trailed
Republicans when it comes to trust in
handling the economy. But the recent
numbers and trends show that Republicans
are indeed losing ground. And perhaps
the urgency is being underscored by the
fact that this will mark President
Trump's fifth visit to the key
battleground of Pennsylvania. And this
is a very key district with a vulnerable
Republican incumbent. Now, John, we have
seen some moves recently here in
Washington to tackle affordability
issues. Just yesterday, the Senate
finally passed what was considered to be
a long awaited bipartisan bill geared
towards housing affordability and
housing supply. It is going to be an
issue that both parties try to claim
stake to as we head into November.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. Down in Washington. To build
on that, Enred Traa partners writing,
"The time is ripe for 2028 presidential
hope force to start distancing
themselves from the Trump
administration's second term and the
Iran war." Henreda joins us now for
more. Henry, welcome to the program.
We've learned that's not helpful in
primaries. Is it helpful on the
international or rather the national
stage? In a general,
>> the Iran war is universally unpopular
even amongst Republicans at polls at
what is very low for President Trump
amongst his very devoted base at 70%.
The majority of Americans I I think the
last number I saw was 69% of Americans
writ large disapprove of the war. And
that includes 78% of independents. And
those are of course the core voters that
you're going after in any kind of
election cycle, the midterms, a
presidential. And so you see Republican
presidential hopefuls. I'd point to Ted
Cruz in particular as members who are
trying to stake a claim down a lane that
isn't directly descended from President
Trump, like a JD Vance or a Marco Rubio.
If you're not in the administration, the
Iran war is uniquely unpopular with the
American public. It's a great
opportunity to start to differentiate
yourself from your other, you know,
contenders. Henry, if you're JD Vance
though, do you want to be the face of
the negotiations that end the war or do
you think potentially he should have
maybe suggested the Secretary of State
Marco Rubio to handle that?
>> Yeah. I mean, this is really making
lemonade at a lemons. The war hasn't
been popular from the jump. It has only
gotten less popular, which is very
normal. Um but both Iran and Pakistan
and of course the president did himself
a huge favor by getting JD Vance who has
historically been opposed to war,
opposed to forever wars and a very vocal
opponent of specifically going to war
with Iran. Now he is the one in
Switzerland doing the negotiations at
the front lines. Um so it's I think a
very savvy tactic on the part of
President Trump to get JD Vance in here.
It's going to be a problem for him later
on down the line. What's going to be the
response from Congress as Iran is saying
that $12 billion of its frozen funds
were set to be released and the United
States released this oil waiver where
Iranian crude could trade on the
international market legally.
>> Yeah, it's amazing. You know, I used to
think that the most incredible about
face for the Republican conference was
going from being pro- free trade and
anti-tariff to now supportive of a
effectively global tariff regime. And
this is, I would say, pretty much on par
with that. The Republican conference has
voted for Iranian sanctions for decades
and they have passed legislation
including under administrations going
three or four back saying we want these
sanctions. We want to squeeze Iran. They
are state sponsor of terrorism. We will
give them no ground. And here you have
the Treasury Secretary signing his name
on the line giving a general license for
immediate waiverss on exactly what
Republicans have tried to prevent for
the last several decades. Um so this
goes back to sort of the presidential
argument. You're getting every
presidential contender. Rubio, Treasury
Secretary Bessant, JD Vance on the
record saying not only do we support
sanctions, but we're going to make them
go through before we even debate the
nuclear file while Israel is at war in
Lebanon. I mean, it's it's pretty
astounding.
>> Heno, when you take a look at the top
three macro risks, and it speaks to what
you're talking about with the Middle
East, the unpopularity there, as well as
some of the way that the White House has
navigated it, and that's related to the
inflation risk. Torsson put out its
Middle East, its inflation outlook and
its artificial intelligence. It comes at
a time where the US administration is
increasingly investing directly in AI
related companies, quantum computing
being the latest target spot. How is
that playing with voters as well as
potential candidates trying to get to
the Republican ticket?
>> You know, I think if you were able to
tie this into how am I going to benefit?
How does this help me? You know, I I
like to hear the idea that America is
making so much money off of an Intel
stake, but I do not like that I'm paying
close to $4 in gas and I was paying
$2.81 the beginning of the war. So, it's
it's very abstract for the average
American voter and that's why you see
the president's approval rating on his
handling of the economy is at 33%. Those
are astronomically low numbers. So, you
get this directive. It's kind of like
the stock market is booming. Well,
that's awesome, unless I'm part of the
50% of the American economy that's not
invested in the stock market, you know.
So, it really is hard to sell to the
average voter. And when I think of
Republicans going into this election
cycle or any any uh candidate, you don't
want to pay attention to sort of the
campaign contributions unless they're
low dollar figures. Show me the
individual voters who are out here
supporting my campaign, not the big
macro, hey, I just got 10 billion
dollars from Intel. It's doesn't mean
anything to the average voter.
Henrietta, we're just hearing from the
president on a range of issues with
regards to Iran. One on the nuclear
effort to make sure they never have a
weapon, the other on shipping and the
third point on frozen funds. I'm just
going to read some of it to our
audience. Iran has fully and completely
agreed to the highest level nuclear
inspections long into the future. This
will ensure nuclear honesty. If they did
not agree to this, there would be no
further negotiations. Based on this and
other major concessions being made by
Iran, I've agreed to allow the Horus
straight to remain open with no further
naval blockade. However, all ships are
remaining in place should be necessary
to reinstitute the blockade which seems
at this point highly unlikely. So that
is the nuclear effort and that is
shipping. This is the frozen funds
point. The money and/or sanctions the US
Treasury is releasing goes into escrow
controlled by the USA and will be used
for the purchase of food and medical
supplies exclusively from the United
States, including corn, wheat, and
soybeans from our great American
farmers. These are things that are
desperately needed by Iran. This is a
humanitarian crisis. Henrietta, just
briefly on that point, the third point
on the frozen funds, what have we heard
from Iran about that?
uh we have not heard the same language
or verbiage around that. Indeed, they
have said the 12 billion is coming in
two different baskets, six billion at a
time. As is very normal with trade
negotiations, you get a different read
from one side of the other. We've
watched it how many times with China. I
would say pay attention to what the
president is saying here and vice
president Vance echoed it yesterday,
which is farmers. The farmers are in an
extraordinarily bad way in the United
States economy. That's why the president
has taken down tariffs on agricultural
inputs. Anything that uses steel or
aluminum, a caterpillar, deer, big
tractor, anything like that got a tariff
rebate on July 8th. And that's because
the farmers are in very high bankruptcy
levels. They're dealing with the tariffs
and the closure of the straight of
Hormuz. Uh you know, extraordinarily
high input costs for fertilizer, ura,
podash, all that stuff. And it's a
result of not just the war, but also
liberation day. So the president is
looking at a state like Iowa where the
Democratic candidate is ahead of the
Republican candidate. You got a problem.
So for the president to focus on Iran
and dovetail it with farmers is very
again astute but it points to a
political weakness.
>> Hena appreciate it as always. Henrietta
to Trace therea partners. The president
talking about the amount of energy
that's moving through the straight of
that's brought down crude prices more
recently. The effort to unfreeze some of
those funds those frozen Iranian funds
controversial. We'll spend some more
time on that in just a moment. Coming up
on the program, we'll also catch up with
Matthew Whiter of Wellington Management
on a three-day route for SpaceX.
Stocks stand down this morning. We're
negative 1.3% on the S&P 500. On the
NASDAQ, some negative follow-through
from the session in Asia. South Korean
equities, the cost be down by close to
10% at the close. On the NASDAQ, we're
down by close to 3%, negative -2.75.
In the bond market, 2, 10, and 30s
rallying so far this morning on the
session at the front end of the curve,
down three. We are negative three basis
points to 419 and coming off the highs
of the year at the front end of the
yield curve as these rate hike calls
continue to build from the likes of
Deutsche Bank, Bank of America, BMP,
Parabel, and others.
>> Yeah. And not just for one rate hike, by
multiple with Bank of America calling
for three later this year. Our key
question here is how much is this offset
by some of the oil prices that have been
coming down and how much is this really
just the fundamental strength in the US
economy that's shifting up the growth
rate and our start and increasingly
that's the discussion something that Fed
officials are not pull pushing back on
>> a bit more of the latter I think because
these rate hike bets are firming up even
as this move in crude fades crude this
morning almost taking out basically the
whole rally post war this morning
trading around 73 Brent at 77 remember
crude was trading in the high 60s before
this war started and here we are at 73
on WTI and the president just moments
ago talking about the amount of barrels
that have moved through the straight in
just the last 24 hours.
>> Yeah, he's talking about 19 million
barrels of oil flowed out of the
straight of Hermoose yesterday. He's
calling this an all-time record and oil
prices are tumbling down. You have to
look at what is actually happening
almost less when the president says the
fact of the matter is to this market
barrels are moving and it's not just
vessels that have been trapped that are
international vessels. This
administration is giving a waiver to
allow Iranian crude to flow normally on
the international market. We could see a
scenario. It would be very weird, but we
could see a scenario where legally a US
refiner could buy Iranian cargos,
>> which is unthinkable to think about. As
you've suggested, probably won't happen,
but unthinkable. Two hours away from the
cash open. The opening bout just around
the corner with some morning movers.
Some single names. Yhara has more. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. The tech sell off is punishing
some of the market's high flyers of the
year the most this morning with chip and
memory names like Micron, Marll and AMD
all sharply lower in the pre-market and
it mirrors what we saw over in South
Korea overnight with the Cosby down
nearly 10% as you said and it was the
memory names leading the selloff
particularly SKH after this report came
out that it may be slowing production of
its AI memory business shift. shifting
toward uh traditional DRAM chips that
sparked concerns about demand just in
time for Micron earnings tomorrow. Uh
that name down 7.4%
in the pre-market and this just
dramatically raises the stakes for that
name. Another tech name selling off is
Alphabet down nearly 2% in the
pre-market after it suffered its worst
day since May of last year yesterday
with a 5% drop. And that came after two
high-profile AI leaders left the company
in just the past two weeks. One left
philanthropic, the other for Open AI.
And it raises questions about whether
Alphabet can stay uh one of the leaders
in AI that the market has rewarded when
top leaders um in that in that area are
leaving the company. And I managed to
find one bright spot and that is IBM.
Shares are rising uh 4.6% 6% in the
pre-market on a trio of positive
catalysts. Uh first you have the company
announcing this partnership, a cyber
security partnership with OpenAI. It
picked up an upgrade from analysts over
at JP Morgan and President Trump singing
its CEO uh high praises yesterday at a
White House event. John Yhara, that's
happened to stop. We'll catch up with
you in the next hour. Yahara, thank you.
On our radar this morning, the story
just breaking just moments ago.
President Donald Trump saying funds from
lifted sanctions on Iran will go into
escrow. The president posting on social
media that the money will be used
exclusively to purchase US agricultural
goods for the people of Iran.
>> So even if that is true, it does mean
the regime has more access to funds so
they can move money around. If they're
going to use their escro money for
humanitarian, they can use the remainder
of the funds they have within their
control to rebuild their military and
send this money to proxies. the the
proxy issue was a red line for this
administration, for this president for
years and it is not addressed in theou
and now the regime is getting more
money. As you mentioned, this was a huge
talking point. The Republicans would
push back on Democratic administrations
when they said they were giving money to
the regime from escrow for humanitarian
purposes. Well, they just moved money
around and they still have more money
left to use on nefarious issues.
>> I feel like I've seen this movie before.
It's just the president had a different
name in the White House. This is turning
into something of the same kind of
quagmire when it comes to political and
geopolitical strategists. A lot of this
is how do you make a deal palatable that
on one hand is sort of back to the
future when it comes to some of the
sticking points in the past. But at the
same time did get uh national gasoline
prices on average down to $3.93
from as high as $4.56.
And really this is the key stimulus
going into the midterm elections that
the president is trying to effectuate.
So this is the end goal. Question is,
how do you sell it on the way in?
>> I think you can make the case this
morning that elements of Operation Epic
Fury were successful to degrade the
military capability of Iran to ensure
that we have this focus on ensuring they
never have a nuclear weapon in the way
that the president describes good
things. Some people might argue we were
close to that already before. We are
where we are. Operation Economic Fury,
which is something the Treasury has
touted repeatedly, I think you can make
the argument that that has totally
failed. We talked about a blinking
contest between the Iranians and the US.
And based on the commentary coming from
the president, the US blinked first with
this quote, I didn't want to see
economic catastrophe. If you kept this
going, that could have happened. And I
think that tells you a lot. That
statement is very loaded about the way
they viewed current negotiations and the
prospect of things get a lot worse for
the rest of the world from here,
>> right? And you think of a carrot and
stick approach. Right now, we are
frontloading the carrot when it comes to
these nuclear negotiations. We are in
the middle of nuclear negotiations and
upfront we are giving Iran economic
levers to use when it comes to not just
the money in escrow. 12 billion reported
today from from these funds going to
Iran, but also the fact that they can
now just ship their crude for market
pricing, not having to degrade their
pricing to China because it's sanctioned
market pricing using our financial
system till the end of August. might not
be a good idea to have a blinking
contest economically with a dictatorship
versus a democracy. Just gonna throw
that out there.
>> Well said. And for markets right now,
markets do not care. And we've used this
word agnostic repeatedly.
>> Marcus could not care less what the
contours of the deal are, what theou
looks like. They're following the
barrels. The barrels are moving. That's
good news. Crude's back in the 70s.
Let's move on and talk about tech.
SpaceX, the Elon Musled company shedding
roughly $400 billion in Monday's session
alone. The second largest single session
drop in market value on record. Matt
Whitiler of Wellington Management
writing it's unique in that it's one of
the few companies that can talk about a
future that doesn't exist and get credit
for it in their price. This is exactly
how Tesla stock behaves. Matt joins us
now for more. Matt, good morning. Good
to see you.
>> Good morning. Thanks for having me.
>> Does that make it difficult to bet
against Elon Musk?
>> It definitely makes it difficult to bet
against Elon Musk. When I think about
the companies out there that can go
public and be trading at a $2 trillion
plus market cap, there are very few that
could do it with the current financial
stats that SpaceX is delivering.
>> You're tracking the story. How close are
we to the reusable technology, the
advancements that we need to justify
this market cap?
>> You know, I'm not a huge SpaceX expert,
but what I think they have delivered is
reusable rockets at scale. And I think
they've proven a lot of that which is in
fulfillment of the vision which the next
step being vision of having orbital data
centers. And when you look at the
analyst reports and you look at how
SpaceX is trading obviously a lot of
embedded value in that orbital data
center story.
>> Masio son uh of SoftBank came out
overnight was talking about how he
doesn't see uh data centers in space as
the likely path of travel. He said it's
really about the next couple of years
and who wins the data center buildout on
Earth. as an investor in anthropic, as
someone who has been a participant in
this whole space in this race for AI, do
you agree with him?
>> I do think there is a question around
the long-term viability of orbital data
centers and I am not an expert when it
comes to the physics, the math and the
numbers of getting these things up in
the sky. But I think that the softbank
point is right, which is today we are in
a compute constraint environment for
inference. there is more demand for this
inference compute for AI analysis and AI
workloads than there is supply of that
and that ultimately is what's driven a
lot of the performance in the market
today as we've seen the chipmakers rally
as we've seen companies in the AI space
in the public market like Nvidia like
Microsoft like Facebook
>> yeah but is there starting to be some
push back in terms of the cost of that
buildout of capacity Torson Slack I was
mentioning him earlier of Apollo talked
about AI as a risk and says what happens
if companies start limiting their token
budgets meaningfully because they're
only seeing weak return on investment
and this is something that people are
pointing to the idea that that tokens
are getting restricted. How much is this
a risk factor for you as an investor in
some of these top names?
>> I mean it's definitely something we
think about but ultimately I think you
have to look at two things. The first
thing you have to look at is what the
companies purchasing and spending this
capital are saying and whether it's
SpaceX with their recent bond issue and
their IPO or Google with their recent
equity raise. These companies are saying
that there is ROI here. It is sufficient
for me to raise additional funds to go
do these buildouts. And that's not
because they are necessarily fueling
others. It's also they see internal
demand for this. So I think that's one
thing you have to look at. And I think
the second thing you have to think about
is is perhaps they're overspending in
tokens today almost certainly. But does
that mean that AI does not deliver ROI
across a wide variety of use cases? I
definitely don't think so. And I think
that the proof will be in the years that
play out, does Anthropic end up going
from, I don't know, 2,000%
year-over-year growth like they've been
tracking today to, you know, 500 or
700%.
>> But Microsoft just recently tapped
Deepseek Chinese models to try to offset
some of the cost. Why is that not the
path of travel for a lot of these
companies? I think that when you think
about how the economics will flow in the
model builders themselves, I think it's
our opinion or certainly my opinion that
the frontier models, the open AI, the
anthropics, the leading models out there
will capture a lot of the revenue. But
does that mean that everything needs to
run at the frontier model level?
Absolutely not. Is there a role for
deepseek? Is there a role for open
source? Absolutely. And I think that's
how the market will bifrocate is
there'll be a lot of value in the uh
large language models at the bleeding
edge and there'll also be value acrudeed
to the open-source and Chinese models.
>> When you look at SpaceX, who's really
their competitor right now? Is it the
anthropics or is it the blue origins?
>> Um I think uh it's probably more the
blue origins and if you actually look at
the economics of the business today and
you look at how much capital the company
is bringing in a lot of their
competition is actually the coreweave
and hyperscalers of the world. If you
look at their economic agreements with
Anthropic and with uh Google, that
accounts for almost 24 billion dollars
of annualized revenue that is coming
from just leasing out their data center
compute.
>> Matt, just finally, you're an investor
in Anthropic. Can I get your reaction to
how you'd characterize the messaging
coming from leadership at Anthropic,
which some people say is AI doomerism
and is not helpful to the whole
landscape right now. What's your take on
it? My my take on that is that it may be
perceived as dumerism, but if you look
at how this administration is acting and
if you look at some of the reports that
came out yesterday, perhaps the dumerism
isn't as extreme as people had thought.
I think there was reporting yesterday
that perhaps the latest anthropic model
was able to breach some classified
systems and that is what resulted in the
administration putting a lockdown on the
fable uh release that Anthropic had.
Now, I imagine when this goes public,
you'll be selling the stock, right? Is
that fair to say? You hold anthropic.
Now, when the stock goes public, will
you hold anthropic still?
>> We, as a firm, as a 1.3 trillion asset
manager, have lots of different pockets
of capital. Some of which may be selling
anthropic, some of which may be buying
more.
>> So complicated,
>> complicated.
>> I'm trying to understand how you think
about this in the future because clearly
now in private markets, it's got a great
valuation. It's coming public. There's a
lot of stories and a lot of hype around
it. And what helps the hype sometimes
are these kind of declarations that it's
going to wipe out 30% of white collar
work. You don't have to deal with the
regulatory response just now because
they've created so much value in private
markets. You've been a part of that
value creation. How are you thinking
about the prospect of regulation down
the road? Is that a story you want to
navigate with that company or something
you want to take your hands away and say
you're on your own now. Thanks for the
ride.
>> Well, I think it's definitely a
complicated piece of the mosaic across
all the AI landscape. And I think the
trade-off ultimately comes down to how
much regulatory flex does the government
want to have in this space versus how
much free market and leadership position
we want to take. And I think that's the
tension we're seeing today. And if you
look back a week ago, I think there was
some reporting that perhaps the US
government may start taking positions in
some of these companies like they did at
an at Intel. And I think that
potentially could be a route, although I
don't know.
>> Do political realities in your mind
dictate one or the other? Is it easier
to say in China, we're going to be
market leaders and focus on that and in
the US you just have to face the
political reality that you need to
control this thing because the people
that are voting are the people losing
their jobs.
>> Well, I think that if you contrast the
China approach versus the US approach, I
think you can mandate that we're going
to be a leader and that we are going to
win there. But that doesn't mean that
you deliver on being the winner in
leading there. And I think that's what
makes the US development of AI quite
unique is that we have multiple free
market economy participants trying to
build the best models and so far that
has resulted in us having a lead in the
model space.
>> Matt, this was thoughtful. We appreciate
your time. Thank you so much. Appreciate
it. Matthew Whiter there of Wellington
Management on Anthropic and SpaceX.
>> Some people say that regulation will
actually create some benefits for the
existing models because it creates a
mode around them. Uh when it comes to
the mythos and fable iterations though,
this is an increasing concern. How do
companies catch up? And their spend is
only increasing as they try to catch up
quickly so they don't become vulnerable
to potentially some of the incursions
from some of this technology. A really
complicated puzzle right now.
>> You need the ability to raise a lot of
capital and raise it very quickly both
in equity and in debt markets. Let's
give you an update on stories worldwide
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Vonnie Quinn has more. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. President Trump
posting on Truth Social about
negotiations with Iran, saying he is
allowing the straight of Hormuz to stay
open, but chips remain in place in case
another blockade is needed. The
president also said Iran funds being
released will go into escrow and be
controlled by the US.
Chicago Fed President Austin Goulby
remaining concerned about inflation and
questioning whether the factors driving
up prices are truly temporary. Goulby
calling a rise in services prices quote
disturbing and saying pressures there
can often be more persistent.
Aerospace intelligence winning a US
government contract to deploy AI air
traffic control tools. The company has
developed the tools to map out flight
trajectories and identify potential
congestion areas. The FAA plans to roll
out the tech in the fall. And that is
your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Thank you for the
update. More from Vonyie in the next
hour in about 30 minutes time. And next
on the program, doubling down on price
stability.
>> We've got some work to do on the price
stability front. The way to get monetary
policy right is to deliver on the remmit
that Congress gave us to deliver on
price stability. To be clear, the Fed
will deliver price stability. Up next,
Neil Data of Randmach.
Some negative follow through from the
Asian session out of South Korea. Cosby
down 10%. Those two names getting
absolutely hammered. We're down by 1.6.
2% on the S&P. On the Nasdaq, we're down
by 2.6. In the bond market, a focus on
these Fed rate hike bets. Yields pulling
back this morning, down by three basis
points. The 2-year 41910 around 450.
Under Savannah this morning, doubling
down on price stability. We've got some
work to do on the price stability front.
The way to get monetary policy right is
to deliver on the remmit that Congress
gave us to deliver on price stability.
We have the capability and commitment to
deliver on our price stability objective
of 2%. To be clear, the Fed will deliver
price stability. It's the latest this
morning. The start of the Kevin Walsh
era has a clear path with a new Fed
share expressing his goals for lowering
prices. Neil Data of Renmag warning that
Walsh's hawkish tone could pose a risk
to investors, writing, "I don't view
Walsh's communication strategy thus far
as a positive development. Rarely have I
thought of the Fed as a potential left
tail risk to markets and the economy.
Now I might have to start. Neil joins us
now for more. Neil, welcome to the
program, buddy. It's good to catch up.
What was it about the communication, the
news conference specifically that
changed your mind about how this Fed
might be operating in the future?
>> Well, I think a lot of um the defenders
of the strategy are, you know, sort of
making the critique that, you know,
forward guidance is um out of favor. you
know, people want to be spoonfed the
next meeting. I mean, that's not what
this is about. It seems to me that
people are making or sort of blurring
the lines uh between forward guidance
and uh just having a reaction function,
right? I mean, I think people are, you
know, we need to know exact sort of how
they think about uh the data and how
that will update their um their sort of
distribution around around rates policy.
Um no one's asking for them to kind of
precommit to a policy one way or the
other. uh that's not what this is about.
Um so I think Worsh kind of chairman
Worsh uh you know sort of blurred the
lines between those two things. They're
not in fact the same thing. Um and you
know the risk of course with that
approach is that we're not going to know
the reaction function until uh the
policy itself is announced. And the
further the gap is between the markets
and the Fed um you know the the the the
bigger the potential sort of market um
you know girrations could be uh when
they do make those decisions.
>> So now let's talk about the prospect of
those decisions happening this summer.
I've seen the rate hype bets. You've
seen them too. I've seen the calls come
from several economists as well
including the likes of BMP Parabar. This
is the point the BMP made. that emphasis
on the results of the task force appear
intended as soft forward guidance for
the FMC to wait until later this year
before making a major policy adjustment.
Do you see it the same way?
>> Uh I don't. I mean a lot of people are
trying to do like sort of uh John what
seems to me to be like this you know
mental gymnastics mental jiu-jitsu in
terms of trying to rationalize
everything that came uh came out of that
press conference. I mean, I guess my
concern is if the press conferences are
meant to deliver some kind of dovish
guidance later, the damage would have
already been done in the near term
because it's pretty clear to me that by
allowing this kind of information void
to develop. Uh that information um you
know the hawks on the FOMC kind of
filled that void and the markets latched
on to the next best thing which was the
dots plot. And by the time those task
forces come to any conclusion, you may
have already seen the Fed hike by
September. Uh so I don't really buy too
much into that. Um
>> you know, I think that there's a lot of
also chatter about how these are sort of
pretenses for the Fed to move policy in
a more dovish direction. I mean, that's
not immediately clear to me either. I
mean, if we're talking about adopting
more of a um, you know, sort of an
inflation data approach that kind of
incorporates uh things like median and
trim mean inflation, that's not
necessarily dovish, per se. Um, you
know, there's no dovish bias
persistently in those in those data
points. So, I don't really put too much
stock in that either.
>> You said that the damage is already
done. Where's the damage?
>> Well, I mean, the damage Well, I mean, I
said, what do you mean by that? I mean I
would just
>> in terms of the rate hike I mean right
now we're pricing in a rate hike and the
10ear yield is below where it was on the
day of the Fed meeting and we haven't
seen
>> stock
I don't know the dollar strengthened you
talked about how fin I mean financial
conditions have tightened since then
maybe now maybe that was the goal um but
I do think the release valve of the
dollar is quite interesting to me um the
fact that the Fed appears to be getting
a bit more hawkish while the rest of the
world is not that's putting upward
pressure in the broad dollar exchange
rate
>> and that's
>> but I wouldn't say I mean look the
damage I mean These things don't happen
right away. Um, you know, it's but at
the margin, uh, I don't think it's a
particularly controversial thing to say
that financial conditions have tightened
since the FOMC meeting.
>> Yeah. There's also this concern, uh, and
you yourself have talked about how are
we using the right inflation metric to
really assess the inflationary pressures
in the market. A lot of what people are
focusing on is the task forces. That's
all we got in terms of forward guidance
is that they're going to be task forces
that are going to analyze these things.
Do you welcome some of the reassessment
of some of the benchmarks of the Fed's
Loadar, which is the data?
>> Yeah, of course you welcome it. I mean,
there, you know, there's there's
something to the idea about, you know,
the data revised consistently and all
the time and they give you like very
different messages about, you know,
maybe after the fact. Um, but I also
think a lot of that's wellnown, right?
So it's I mean to me do we think that
the Fed's not doing some of that
already? I mean this is an institution
with loads of economists that are
looking at all different sorts of data
sets and cutting the data sets and
analyzing data sets every which way. Um
so I definitely think it's worth
updating uh you know how you think about
the data the data sets that you use. Um,
but I would just say that a lot of these
private sector data sets, whether it's
something like Revelio or ADP, I mean,
that is not a a a a great substitute.
It's a great complement uh to the BLS
data, but it's not necessarily a
substitute.
>> And just finally, just to wrap it up,
did that news conference make you
bearish on this market?
>> Um, no, not by itself. I mean, I just
think it it made me um I would just say
to me it sort of it's a revealed
preference, right? I mean, going in
there was this sort of view that Worsh
was this dove. I don't really know what
he is right now, and I think it's okay
to kind of admit that. Um, but it it to
me it's a revealed preference by
allowing that information vacuum to um
to develop.
Who filled the vacuum? The Hawks. And
the Hawks are squawking and they're
they're ascendant in the committee at
some level. I mean, you must have known
something like that was going to happen,
uh, if you wanted to be so circumspect
around your own views. So, um, I think
perhaps by not putting in a dot himself,
he may be able to potentially absolve
himself of the decision the committee
ultimately makes, which is a rate hike
in September.
>> Neil, thank you, buddy. Neil Data of Run
Matt. We've talked about that a few
times. If you're not going to offer
guidance, someone else will offer
guidance for you. You're outsourcing
communication to someone else. And to
Neil's point, that's someone else's the
Hawks right now. Up next on the program,
we'll catch up with Kate Moore of City
Wealth, Ted Morrison of Bed, the former
White House senior adviser, Amos
Hogstein, and Brent Shiri of
Northwestern Mutual.
>> The key story is tech boom and that's
going to be the most important.
>> The market can still go up.
>> I can't just tell you to sit here and
hold your nose and sell.
>> The question mark around potential
bubble euphoria does continue to build
up. We have to be wary that it's not
going to last forever.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
In your price action, the scores look
like this. We're down by 1.2% on the S&P
500. On the NASDAQ, we're down by 2.5.
On the Russell, coming off record highs,
we're down by 1.2 following this move
overnight in Asia. South Korea the cost
begining hammered plunging by close to
10% SK highix down by 13 Samsung down by
12.9 a rough session over in Asia
setting the tone for the market this
morning
>> some concern uh on reports local media
reporting the SKH highix is shifting to
more DRAM which is used in everyday
consumer electronics versus the more
expensive highly profitable AI memory
components in part because maybe that's
where they see demand ultimately The
thought here is why wouldn't they double
down on the highest profit margin types
of products? Well, the answer could be
some of the anxiety that people have
about how much capacity some of the
hyperscalers have to keep spending uh
the way that they have given that the
cost seems to just be getting higher and
higher.
>> There's a concern that all of this is
just overheating. I go back to Pier
Farrau though. The idea that potentially
what Apple is doing in terms of raising
their prices because of unsustainable
demand for the memory trips basically
means we might get demand destruction
and potentially is that some of what
we're seeing right now play out in
financial markets.
>> Alis has talked about this countless
times. The next big data point for this
story is micron earnings and it comes
after the closing bell tomorrow. On from
that a little bit later this week you'll
get PCE data on Thursday. In the bond
market at the moment, twos running this
morning, yields are lower, but twos are
near the highs of the year at 420. In
fact, twos are near the highest level
we've seen in more than 12 months as we
really firm up those rate hike bets at
this Federal Reserve.
>> The reason why when people say demand
destruction, I am skeptical is because
people have said that when it comes to
oil prices, didn't see it. People said
that when it came to airline prices,
airline ticket prices going up, we
didn't see that. When it comes to just
basic consumer goods, that's the reason
why inflation rates have been higher
than a lot of people expected and going
in the wrong direction. As Austin Goulby
said of the Chicago Fed yesterday, it is
because people have absorbed those
higher prices. You haven't seen the
demand destruction that you normally
would with higher prices. So to me,
that's the big question. How much heat
is there in the economy to absorb higher
prices rather than simply to have
people?
>> I'm only slightly laughing because when
we talked about this, you said you're
going out and buying all the products
now before the price hikes come. So
maybe it's hoarding.
>> At least it went to Apple. Yeah,
>> that's what happened.
>> I I did I just didn't want to like
>> demand destruction for the 18. But I'm
going to buy the older models.
>> Okay. Well, look,
>> we can move on. But the point being, you
know, it wasn't demand destruction. It
was demand acceleration. Yes. Which is
what happens in inflationary spirals.
Correct. You want to get ahead of the
price.
>> Exactly. So they buy more. It's sort of
like toilet paper.
>> Textbook. Absolutely. Exactly. Just like
toilet paper. Where did that come from?
>> The pandemic.
>> Okay. Yeah. I Yeah.
>> You know, it's like hoarding.
>> I got long toilet paper. I had tons. I
should have sold it.
>> I know. You actually did really well
with that. So, I've got
>> It's kind of sad that markets ripped
through that whole period and the
greatest trade I made was stockpiling
toilet paper.
>> Well, you know, we all have our claims
to fame.
>> There we go. Coming up on the program,
Kate Mo. daily wealth with stocks hit by
a global tech selloff. Ted Mortynson of
bed with SpaceX whips by volatility and
a former White House senior adviser Amos
Hawkstein as the US green lights are
rallying on oil sales. We begin this
hour with stocks falling as the tech
fueled slide intensifies. Kate Mo City
writing holding excess cash during
inflationary periods carries a real
cost. So any market pullback could
create an opportunity to deploy capital.
Kate joins us now for more. Kate,
welcome to the program. Is this morning
that kind of opportunity?
>> It might be. But like let me tell you
something I'm trying to focus on. Um
we've been watching very closely the
speed at which all of these rebounds
have happened over the last number of
years and particularly over the last you
know uh period post the pandemic and the
days of re um of the rebound are getting
shorter and shorter and shorter. So,
we're finding people step in even when
they don't have great news, uh, simply
because they have that fear of missing
out and because they're being
conditioned over the last five or six
years that you maybe at most you have 10
or 11 trading days to get back in when
there's a bit of bit of a pullback. So,
I think I'll watch to see what happens
over the next few days. But I would
suggest that if you want to be longer
risk, you can't wait too long and the
rest of the market has been trained to
jump in very quickly. So Kate, the
essence of the call, what underpins at
the epicenter if you will, is this
inflationary push on investors right
now. They need to deploy capital. Why is
that capital going to find its way to
the US equity market specifically? Where
are the other opportunities?
>> Well, I think we know the story that
equities in general tend to hold their
value better in an inflationary
environment. But I think the very
important point here is that aside from
the demand destruction, I think we
should come back to that point that may
or may not happen as prices rise for all
of the components and everything related
to the AI and tech trade. The really
critical point here is that you know
most of what's driving the equity market
we know is kind of more secular in
nature and not necessarily just cyclical
even as some cyclical parts of the
market have performed well and I say
this because you know even if there is
some demand destruction in parts of the
consumer which of course we are not
seeing at this point or in terms of
machinery and equipment orders and
things that are affecting the industrial
sectors you know we still believe that
most of what's powering the market is
going to be earnings and that's
certainly what we've seen in the first
almost six months of this year.
>> So Kate, are you also going to the Apple
store and buying up as much as you can
ahead of price hikes or are you waiting
for the price hikes then you're still
going to buy? I mean, how much do you
see demand destruction is actually a
thing versus people who are absorbing
the prices?
>> Yeah, I'm not doing a ton of
pre-purchasing. Full disclosure though,
uh, at the start of the tariffs last
year, was it just last year? It's pretty
hard to kind of figure that out at this
point. Um, I did buy a couple extra
pairs of running shoes in anticipation
of of challenges getting things um over
to the US. And the truth of this story
is that uh I'm not as much of an Apple
um enthusiast as some other folks. I'm a
big Google enthusiast, so it would be
buying another Pixel. Um, but I don't
know that we're going to need to buy
much in advance. I am watching though,
there was a bit of an acceleration in
terms of same store sales over the
course of 2026. We were kind of flagging
this in a note that we're putting out
this week that we started off January
and February at a very fast clip, much
faster than the 2024 and 2025
experience. And it accelerated post the
beginning of the Iran war, which is
opposite of what most people would have
expected. They would have said, "Hey, in
in the face of a conflict that's going
to be causing broader inflationary
pressures, you know, consumers are going
to pull back." And that's not what's
happened. Uh, at the same time, we're
seeing like small businesses continue to
raise wages. I think it was a net 31% of
businesses surveyed in the NFIB survey
basically saying that they raised wages
or um you know compensation in the
course over the course of May and that
many more we're expecting to have to do
over the course of the summer. So, you
know, that's kind of the pressure I'm
focused on is that, you know, in this
inflationary environment, in the kind of
competition for skilled labor, do we end
up getting a margin squeeze for
companies that are very labor intensive
and who have not switched to AI agents
as as part of their workforce?
>> Kate, does it make you a little less
concerned about inflation and a little
bit more uh in favor of buying long-term
bonds given the hawkish tilt that we
heard from the Federal Reserve or at
least that is perceived by the market?
I mean, I feel a little bit better than
I did last week. Uh, especially given
some of the yield movements, but I'm
still not a buyer of duration. Lisa, I
just have to say, um, I think you're
going to get much better total return
from other parts of your portfolio,
particularly kind of risk assets, than
you will from adding duration at this
point. The hawkish tilt that we
experienced last week from the FOMC, I
think I think I read a bazillion notes
on this and had many conversations with
our own economists. We all agree was a
little bit more than most of us
expected. But I think it was also
warranted because we had been flagging
the breadth of inflationary pressures
for some time. The percentage of PCE
components, the percentage of CPI
components that were tracking at above
3% or 5% annualized rates. So, I think
it was warranted even if it was a bit
surprising, but it does not lead me to
think that, you know, the end is near in
terms of inflationary pressure and that
we should be buying the long end.
>> Do you feel more at ease given what
we've seen in terms of oil prices and
obviously gas prices now below $4 a
gallon across the US?
>> Well, I think it's certainly going to
relieve a little bit of pressure as we
go into the summer driving season, but
we know that gasoline spend as a
percentage of total spend um has not
been growing dramatically over recent
years. Um, I'll be interested to see if
that, you know, lower gasoline prices
lends additional support for some of
that retail sales and uh consumer spend
activity we were just talking about. But
I I will tell you that we see very
little pockets of significant weakness
uh in the US consumer and so it's more
broad-based um strength and I think
that's going to help to power you know a
sustained growth trajectory in the
second half of 26.
>> Okay, we need to talk about this dead
offering the amount of supply we're
getting. Just bear with me. Getting some
news coming from SpaceX. The longest
maturity I can see coming from this
planned debt offering, we've reported on
it could be as much as $20 billion.
Lisa, a 30-year offering coming from
SpaceX. Multiart offering, but a 30-year
piece in the offering we're getting
later today.
>> Yeah, 30-year space debt at a time when
the promises are long-term. I'm looking
right now that the uh discussion is
around 200 basis points over benchmark
rates. at least that is the talk right
now versus the average of 73 basis
points. So yeah, you are demanding a
premium although if you take a look at
the maturities and you take a look at
some of uh the other investment grade
the lowest tier of the investment grade
universe that's sort of in line. A
question here about what the demand
picture is going to look like right are
you going to start to get push back
because remember us bond guys are bean
counters we want our money back with
interest. We don't want to shoot for the
moon literally because ultimately we
have a cap on how much we can earn back.
So at a certain point do you start
seeing skepticism about a company that
hasn't shown the numbers yet and has
promised quite a bit.
>> So TripleB rated just about investment
grade and I was going through the
Moody's report that came out alongside
that rating and within that they talk
about the risk factors and it reads as
follows. Execution risk is further
elevated by dependence on Starship V3.
Technical setbacks or delays in
achieving full reusability or ramping
launch cadence would constrain the
company's ability to expand network
capacity thereby pressuring long-term
revenue growth. margin expansion and the
overall credit profile. Of course, that
would be a risk for the credit ratings
that comes from Moody's. The problem
that you have with the risk factor to
your exact point, which I think is the
most important point with regards to
this debt, is that if they are
successful doing all of those things,
you don't get the upside in the debt,
you get the upside in the equity. And if
they're not successful, you get all the
downside in the debt market. So, you've
got to make sure that whatever yield you
get on this debt, even if it is
investment grade, it's right there at
triple B. You've got to make sure it
compensates you for that risk. Yeah, not
all triple B companies are are the same,
especially if the business model is
somewhat speculative. And I know a
number of credit investors who have said
to me, look, I would rather own tech
equities than the tech debt given the
potential upside versus the potential
downside. Again, you're talking a pretty
long time. Three decades. I mean, three
decades, we might all be living on Mars.
>> Yeah, it could be a very different
world.
>> I mean, maybe it'll be the best bet out
there, but we just don't know.
>> Maybe he'll prove all the doubters
wrong, but you're going to see the
upside to your point in the stock. Also
worth pointing out what the money is
going to be used for. It's going to be
used to repay the outstanding borrowings
under a bridge loan facility in full. We
kind of knew that. So that's not news,
but it's worth considering because this
isn't new money to go after new
investments. That's important because
there are people that follow this debt,
particularly in the investment grade
market that would say this is not the
same as Alphabet. It's not the same as
the hyperscalers would say at AA credit.
They have capacity to issue a lot of
debt here before they worry about
becoming junk. SpaceX isn't in the same
place right now, which is why a lot of
people think if you see more capital
raising, you're going to see it come
from the equity side of things, maybe
more than from the debt side.
>> Yeah. And the equity side of things
gives it a cushion. So you can say if
you're a debt investor, look, at least
you've got that cushion to absorb. But
like you said, it's not tied to specific
projects that potentially could be
profitable in and of themselves. Also
unclear whether it's secured by anything
in particular. you can secure a lot of
assets behind the hyperscalers that
could potentially be sold to recoup some
of your investments. So, it's not
exactly the same. And even then, you had
some investors saying, "If I'm going to
invest in technology, I'm going to do it
on the equity side."
>> Okay. We wanted to spare you so you
didn't have to talk about a single name,
a specific company. But there's some of
the dynamics right now on the supply
side of things, in equity, in debt. When
you look at the amount of supply we
could see, the amount of paper being
issued, the amount of capital being
raised to fund these projects, is that a
threat to this equity market?
Uh, I think it's something for us to be
aware of. I'm not going to say it's an
outright flat uh um threat at this
moment, but it is absolutely true that
all of these companies that have been on
rocket ships, and I I say that really
tongue and cheek, um have uh are being
opportunistic about how they can raise
capital right now, whether it's in
equity issuance or in debt issuance. And
that's generally a prudent thing to do
when your sector, your industry is hot,
when there's a tremendous amount of
investor attention, like now is the time
to strike. The one thing that we do have
to recognize though of course is that
we've had a phenomenal run and and some
of these names and I'm not talking
specifically about SpaceX which is very
new to the market um over the course of
the last couple years and our experience
is that clients are feeling and
investors are feeling a little bit
anxious about the concentration that
they have in these names in their equity
portfolio. So when we think about
whether or not they're going to be
adding significantly on the debt side as
well, they have to say, do I want to
take that much sector concentration risk
um on both the equity and the debt side
of my exposure? And that I think is a
question left to be had uh or less left
to be answered and something that we've
been talking to a lot of clients about
especially as some of the well-known uh
technology companies are appearing to be
larger parts of the IG isuance.
>> It's becoming a bigger and bigger debate
that's for sure. Kate, thank you. It's
good to see you as always. Kate Moore
there of city with an update on stories
worldwide stories elsewhere with your
morning brief your Bloomberg brief.
Vonnie Quinn has more. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. President Trump posting on
Truth Social about negotiations with
Iran saying he is allowing the straight
of four moves to stay open but ships
remain in place in case other blockades
are needed. The president also said Iran
funds being released will go into escrow
and be controlled by the United States.
Andy Bernham is under pressure to
outline an economic plan for the UK.
He's front runner to replace Kier
Starmer who stepped down as prime
minister yesterday or announced it at
least. The BBC reporting two Labor MPs
are considering challenging Burnham.
The Senate passing a bill aimed at
curbing Wall Street's influence on the
housing market. The House will consider
the measure today. The bill would block
large investors from purchasing
additional single family properties. And
that is your Bloomberg brief. John
>> and Bonnie, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on the program, the
morning cause plus Ted Menson of bed
with the tech sector rocked by major
volatility in the last 24 hours from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
The initial reaction of the market was
very positive. There was like a lot of
demand for the stock. Everybody wants to
participate to this dream. What what a
beautiful story. I think investors are
concerned are hearing about companies
like blowing up their token budget and
raining back on AI spending. Investors
know that most of the valuation is a
very very long-term story.
>> That was Pier Feduka of New Street
Research on SpaceX. SpaceX a 3-day route
looking to arrest some of that move a
little bit later this morning at the
opening b. That stock turning positive
in the last hour or so. Equity futures
still negative. We're down 1.3 on the
S&P, down 2.8 on the NASDAQ. That's the
price action. Here's some of your
morning calls this morning. First up,
Susca Hannah initiating coverage on
SpaceX with a neutral rating and 170
price target, citing strong growth
prospects and demanding valuation.
Second call from Bank of America raising
his price target on Qualcomm to 195,
saying the company is re-entering a fast
growing but hyperco competitive AI
market. That stock is down by 6.5%. And
your third and final call from JP Morgan
upgrading IBM to overweight, seeing
greater confidence in software
acceleration in the second half. Their
stock is up this morning for different
reasons. is up by 5% in the pre-market.
Let's stick with tech. SpaceX turning
positive this morning, looking to snap a
three-day losing streak of raising $600
billion in market cap. Mandep Singh of
Bloomberg Intelligence joins us now for
more. Mandep, it's early days. I don't
know whether to make too much of this or
not. Where's the pressure coming from
for this stock? I mean we knew uh you
know with the road show that there was a
lot of retail interest and uh look uh
this company hasn't even reported a
quarter and it's uh trading at this kind
of valuation and my sense is every time
there will be a successful launch from
SpaceX that's going to change the
narrative you know drive enthusiasm same
thing with an AI model release that they
are going to have on the Gro side or
cursor side so it will be very volatile
you know for anyone uh who is an owner
of the stock simply because this company
doesn't have the sort of balance sheet
that your hyperscalers have and uh you
know a lot of the revenue is further
out. So it's contingent upon these two
things really going uh you know in in
the right direction and and that's where
there's a lot of uncertainty.
>> It does have the equity cushion that
other hyperscalers have. Mandy, what are
your thoughts on how they're using it?
>> I think the cursor acquisition was a
great one just because it gave them a
lot of credibility. uh you know around
the coding agent market which is among
the most successful use cases of
generative AI and the fact that they can
scale cursor and really you know deploy
it uh with their compute because cursor
didn't have the compute so to my mind
that definitely was headed in the right
direction and that is why people got
really excited but there is no doubt
that space launches and you know the
orbital data centers that is where they
have to show continuous progress and uh
there's a lot of steps that have to go
right for them.
>> Mandep, it's good to see you. It always
is. Thank you, sir. Mandep Singh there
of Bloomberg Intelligence. To build on
this, Ted Mudson of Bed joined us now
for more. Ted, welcome back to the
program, sir. It's good to see you. You
say we're now in a game of duck duck
goose. Can you translate for us? What
does that mean for this stock?
>> So, if you if you look at the last
person in the pool on the tech pool, um
we're now to the point where I don't
think you can squeeze anybody more into
the pool. And what I mean by duck duck
goose, nobody wants to be the last guy
without a chair.
um the uh exposures across both the
hedge funds, the mutual funds, and the
speculation in retail. And I've been
doing this for too long, probably 35
years or so. It's uh pretty heavy. So,
um we're just in this cycle, I think,
where we're massively overbought.
>> Overbought for which specific names? You
talking about SpaceX more specifically,
or you talking more broadly about the
hypers scale or in tech trade?
I think if you look at the IGV uh Lisa,
the IGV is up 106% and or I mean the
socks is up 106%. The IGV which is a
software index is off 17%. So when we
talk about crowded trades, Micron up
325%,
Marll up 262%,
ARM up 273%.
I can go on and on. There's about 12 of
these that are um I would say on average
up about 250%. That's a good decade of
returns and most of those returns have
been attained since April 7th. So uh in
two months we've seen a uh a historic
melt on a pull in of infrastructure into
that cloud uh infrastructure uh area.
>> Ted, uh tomorrow Micron reports earnings
after the bell. Could they do anything
to make you think that it isn't
necessarily an overbought name given the
fact that it alone is up 880% over the
past 12 months?
>> The expectations are very very high and
where where my clients are really
focused is uh we've never seen gross
margins where they guided at 81%. I mean
back in September of 25 they were at 45%
gross margins. I mean it's a it's it's
almost a historic move on the model on
not only pricing leverage and I think to
uh to your previous comments we're
starting to bump up against uh
enterprise elasticity of demand. Um
these price increases of over call it
20% plus are impacting IT budgets. I
mean IT budgets are only up 4%
year-over-year.
um they're getting killed by by
infrastructure whether it be networking,
storage or memory cost. Uh there isn't a
lot of pixie dust out there to uh
increase um IT budgets just uh on a
blink of an eye. So, um I think we're
we've had a massive pull in of
infrastructure in the first half and um
in trying people trying to get in front
of price increases and and insulate
themselves if there are any shortages on
the supply side. Um they pulled in a lot
of spend and uh this is very indicative
of what the cloud titan capex looks
like. So Ted, do you think we see a
bounce back from this given the fact
that potentially some of the draw down
we're seeing what's happening in Korea
is because maybe individuals are
concerned about demand destruction?
>> Uh Korea is a different market. It's
very speculative. The the retail the
retail investors leveraged uh you know
through the roof. It reminds me of uh
Bitcoin in the US when the retail in
investor at the top was very leveraged.
I think everybody in Korea on the retail
side has leveraged their their own
internal balance sheet to play SKH
Heinik. So that's a I think that's a
special situation. Um I think where uh
our checks are picking up some at least
a little bit of disturbance in the force
on the on the um hypers scale side is
token costs are through the roof. And um
there is a lot of debate on the
traditional foundation models and I'm
I'm I'm talking more about gro I'm
talking more about anthropic and open
AI. Uh what we need to watch if if um to
lower cost if a lot of these um next
generation AI companies move to
open-source models specifically uh
coming out of China to reduce reduce
token cost. Token costs are a real bit a
real big issue out there. Ted,
appreciate it. Really well framed as
always. Ted Merson there of bed. If
you're wondering what's happening in
this equity market right now to
understand the concerns that the bears
have about some of the pricing, then
you've got a decent clinic just there in
the last 5 minutes.
>> Yeah, right now just how many years of
advancement are you pricing in? At the
same time, capex budgets are getting a
little constrained at some of these
companies.
>> The Cosby becoming a bit of of a casino,
right? Bit of a leverage casino.
>> A bit is sort of a understatement.
>> 10% move overnight, 10% lower. Coming up
on this program, the former White House
senior adviser Amas Hawkstein with Iran
set to restart its oil sales around the
world.
60 minutes out from the cash open. The
opening power just around the corner.
Equity futures trading lower. We're down
by 1.4% on the S&P. Hanging in here even
as we get closer and closer to the cash
open. We've got the NASDAQ down by close
to 3% negative by 2.9% so far this
morning.
>> Yeah. How much is this coming because of
what we saw in the casino that is the
South Korean stock market for the Cosby?
How much is this coming because there
truly is anxiety about people's ability
to pay for some of these uh really
ambitious goals? How much is this partly
because we have seen a tightening of the
financial conditions? And to Neil Duta's
point, the fact that we are anticipating
rate hikes starting to crimp some of the
expected uh returns in equities. So how
much have these things kind of kick
>> some better news in a bond market if you
will small glimpse of hope maybe got a
rally an offset at least in fixed income
yield to lower by three basis points on
Tuesday to 41983 some better news also
in the oil market we're moving barrels
forget the chitchat forget the politics
all this market cares about the short
term is the energy is moving through the
straight and that's what you're getting
we're down by 3/4 of 1% on Brent 77 WTI
at 73 and really really close to wiping
out the postwar rally on a price of
crude.
>> Yeah, and you nailed it. What are people
doing instead of what are they? What are
they saying? Not only is the trader of
Hermoose starting to reopen and some of
those vessels that were stuck or getting
out, but this administration is allowing
Iranian crude to hit the market legally
with those waiverss we saw from the
Treasury Department yesterday, at least
while they negotiate the nuclear
portfolio. So, until the end of August,
you can see Iranian crude showing up
almost anywhere. Now, do we think that's
actually going to happen? No. But I mean
it it would be almost legal for a
refiner in the United States to take an
Iranian cargo.
>> Energy is moving for Marcus. That's good
news. What it took to get the energy to
move? We'll spend some time on that in
just a moment. One hour away from the
cash open. Let's get you some single
names. Some morning movers. Yahara has
more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. SpaceX is trying to stage a
comeback this morning. Trimming its
losses now down just 1% after it turned
positive uh just earlier in the
pre-market. But this is after
yesterday's sharp sell-off that wiped
out nearly $400 billion of market value
off the stock. The positive sentiment
coming as we're learning more about the
company's first ever investment grade
bond offering. It is looking to borrow
across maturities ranging from five to
30 years because you know rockets are
expensive. Uh turning to the rest of the
tech selloff, we are continuing to see
selling in Micron AMD and the Neocloud
core weave. Um and it's mirroring what
happened in South Korea with memory
leading the declines with the costby
down at nearly 10% particularly because
of SKH. There was this report that came
out that it was uh may slow expansion of
its AI memory business uh shifting its
focus to traditional DRAM chips and that
caused um some that sparked concerns
about demand just as Micron is set to
report earnings tomorrow. And we end on
AMC. The company had some positive news
out yesterday that it had its busiest
weekend so far this year, but shares are
plunging 23% after it announced plans to
raise roughly $200 million through a
stock sale. The cash will help to pay
down AMC's debt and help its balance
sheet. Still, it is diluting event that
even Woody and Buzz Lightear cannot
save. John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. The name
is down by more than 20% this morning on
SpaceX. Robert Schiffman of Bloomberg
Intelligence with a classic dad joke
this morning. How do you organize a
space party? You plan it.
>> I love it. Thank you. I know. I know you
think it's terrible. I welcome the
>> You were reading this at the same time
as me.
>> It's great. Yeah. But I went straight to
it was a point that he was making which
I thought was really interesting.
>> The actual substance
>> like but I I appreciate a good dad joke,
don't get me wrong, but talking about
how this actually could be the template
for what we can expect from Anthropic
and Open AI. the idea of coming out
getting a cushion of liquidity
underneath you from the equity offering
and then quickly raising as much money
as you can in the debt markets before
people lose faith uh because ultimately
it is a race and they need to win.
>> Yeah. It's not the space race, it's the
race for capital.
>> Correct.
>> Ed LLO's talked about it repeatedly. Any
opportunity you've got anywhere, any
currency, any asset class, they're
taking that opportunity right now. Let's
talk about a different asset class.
Let's talk about crude. president
announcing funds from lifted Iranian
sanctions will be put in escrow to be
used exclusively to buy US goods.
>> If the sanctions go out, uh money is
going to be put into this country. All
that money is coming back uh in the form
of purchases of food which they
desperately need.
>> Can you ensure that the Iranians won't
use profits from oil sales to rebuild
their military?
>> Well, they're not supposed to be doing
that, so we'll see. But they're supposed
to use money to buy food for their
people. Iran now has 60 days to sell oil
on the international market crude this
morning 77 on Bren 73 on WTI joining us
now to discuss the former White House
senior adviser and partner at TWWG group
Amos Hawkstein Amos we'll start broadly
we can get into details what's your
reaction been to how this has played out
over the last week
>> well quite remarkable uh because
theou in itself is is little more than
really I mean it's almost like a
surrender. I mean if you think about
where we started uh a few months ago and
what policy has been for the last
several decades and where we are today
uh we have basically said for 60 days we
are removing massive amounts of
sanctions off off oil, gas and
petrochemicals
uh and refined products. You can sell it
anywhere in dollars. We haven't done
that in in in many many years. uh they
can also get some access to unfrozen
their own unfrozen assets you know six
to1 12 billion dollars depending on
which report you hear uh they get other
benefits and all they had to do was to
open the straits and agree to talk so we
haven't actually agreed to anything on
the nuclear but we have agreed that
missile ballistic missile program and
support for proxy terrorist groups in
the region are not on the table and not
part of the negotiations and we've given
them the huge political uh win of now
being the decision makers in Lebanon uh
which is quite astonishing. So this is
what we've done. We've given them all
this whole document is incentives and
agreements to give Iran things with the
hope that we'll get something out of it
uh some point during the 60 days. And
the clip that you showed a little bit
earlier with the president talking about
buying food and medicine, I think he's
confusing two different types of
revenues. The food and medicine is
really, I think, what they're trying to
do with the unfrozen assets in cutter,
the 6 to12 billion. The oil revenues,
they can sell and do with that revenue
whatever they want.
>> When it comes to that oil revenue, Amos,
where do you think Iranian crude will be
going? Is this just legitimize the
Chinese buyers or will they actually
find new customers?
I assume that at first it will just be
the Chinese customers with legitimacy
and and probably Indian uh consumers as
well. Uh and then the rest of the market
will wait and see and to see how long
this lasts because the worst thing is
you unsanction something the Americans
and the Iranians get into some tiff uh
you know some few a week from now, three
weeks from now, five weeks from now and
suddenly what you bought that was
unsanctioned is suddenly sanctioned
again. So, I think people will take some
time to figure that out. Except, of
course, some trading houses that will
buy a whole bunch of Iranian crude and
blend it and then uh they'll be able to
sell wherever they want. So, I think
you're going to see sort of a a
broadening, but it'll be a gradual
broadening.
>> I know they're not a monolith, but do
you have an understanding of where the
GCC is on this given the fact that it is
pretty remarkable, as you said, to see
this U-turn from this administration to
allow Iranian oil to legally hit the
market. Well, I mean, we haven't seen
this in four decades.
>> Yeah. This is again, I think that you're
you're right. The Gulf is not a
monolith. Uh clearly the the political
winner in the Gulf is cutter uh where
they are setting to some degree setting
American policy. They're in charge of
American Middle East policy right now.
Uh in quite an extraordinary way. They
are uh quite gifted at this. Uh and I
think that there are others in the Gulf
who are looking at this and saying,
"Wait a minute, we didn't like we don't
really like cutter foreign policy. Uh
and now it's running American foreign
policy. Uh Iran was a a threat to us. Uh
the United States convinced us to join
them in conflict. Uh now they're
emerging stronger politically at home,
right? I mean, you cannot you can't
imagine anybody going out and
demonstrating against the regime right
now. Help is definitely not on the way.
uh and and so they're left with a
neighbor next door uh that is angry and
vengeful uh and is going to be very
wellunded and if they are very well
funded uh you're talking about if you
talk about their sales on oil sales
alone in petrochemicals you're probably
talking about a revenues of about a
billion a week uh so those countries in
the Gulf are are looking at this with
great concern and are going to have to
invest in their own defense uh in the
long term thinking that the United
States has become uh extremely shortterm
thinking. You know, that's kind of how
they view us at the moment.
>> Almost we're looking at oil prices
because that's what the market is
looking at. And they're somewhat
agnostic, as John has mentioned many
times about exactly how oil is getting
from one place to another and the
potential geopolitical uh implications
at least in the short term saying,
"Look, at least barrels of oil are going
through the street of Hermuz." Do you
think that this is an accurate
reflection of the potential risk of an
additional closure? Because if there is
true control by Iran over the straight
of should there be a higher premium to
potentially offset against the risk of
something like this happening again?
>> Look, I think if we were talking about
this 5 years ago, 10 years ago, yes, you
would talk about risk premiums and so
on, but the market at the moment is
basically saying, I have a lot of news
that I want to look at on the tech side.
how much capex is coming in on AI and
data centers and uh blockbuster IPOs and
space. Uh that's what I want to focus
on. So energy really is judges. Do I
have a pro? Is this something that's
going to drag me down or not? If it's
not going to drag me down, I don't want
to talk about it. Everything is fine. I
don't want to hear people telling me
about risk premiums. And so that's where
we are realitywise in the market. Do we
have a risk in the O of course because
the one thing that's come out of this
conflict is Iran, as I said on your show
a few weeks ago before this agreement,
no matter how this this war ends, no
matter what agreement we reach, Iran
sees it as they control the straits. And
control of the straits does not
necessarily mean a toll. It could just
as well mean I decide that tankers need
to give me 48 hours notice. I can decide
that I don't like a certain company.
Your tankers are not going through.
Those kinds of things. So yes, there's a
risk, but I don't think the market is
there to look at it. The second piece of
that is while oil prices are coming
down, they're still at, you know,
Brent's still at 77, WTI at 73 in
December of this, you know, this past
year, December, January before the winds
of war started blowing. We were at 56 to
$60. So we're still trading at a
significant premium to where we were
before the winds of war in December. So,
I think if the prices start coming down
further, which I think they will, at
some point you'll start saying, "Okay,
can they really go back to where they
were in December?" And that's where
we'll see probably a $510 uh risk
premium that will be that will be put
into the market.
>> Even Amos managed to get the tech trade
in there. You notice that?
>> Well, I mean, well, I mean, I think that
there's a bit of frustration at least
when people look at the geopolitics
saying this actually matters
tremendously, but they can't get anyone
to care because everyone's saying, "Ooh,
space." Amos, I'd love a final word with
you on that. There was some discussion
that the rebuild effort would be so
costly, so expensive for nations across
the Gulf that they'd be distracted from
spending all this money on tech on AI
when there has been some excitement
particularly over the last year about
sovereign AI and the amount of
investment that would come from that
particular part of the world. What
should we be tracking now? Where's the
money going? Where isn't it going?
>> So, I I never agreed with that with that
notion. I think uh countries like UAE
and Saudi and others are really looking
at tech as a long-term diversification
away from oil and their national economy
and budgets that has become more acute
not less. They're going to be spending
money one on diversification of their
energy sector away from the straight of
Hormuz. So building out infrastructure
which sounds expensive but really isn't.
It's a few billion dollars here and
there uh to build out this
infrastructure. And the second piece is
to double down on their investments in
tech. And most of that is going to be in
the United States because where else are
you going to invest? There's a ceiling
for them in how much they can invest in
China. They're continuing to invest
there, but there's a ceiling. Europe is
non-existent. Uh or there's a little bit
of play here and there, but it's really
small amounts of dollars. And so, the
bulk of it will have to come uh to the
United States. And I gotta say, I've
been to UAE and Saudi, the the buildout
that's happening there is going to
continue to to expand. The question will
be not how much they want to spend, but
will companies, American companies,
European companies want to build data
centers in the Gulf or will they be more
hesitant as a result of this? But I
think you're going to see more money
coming in to uh invest in this sector.
And I think it's going to be mostly in
the tech sector. Some of it in health
care uh and other in sports and other
entertainment uh sectors around the
world, but mostly again I think in the
United States
>> and not in golf apparently for now.
Amos, it's good to see you. Thank you,
sir. Amos Hawkstein, the former White
House senior adviser looking at equities
as we have this conversation, making new
session lows. We're down by close to
1.5% on the S&P, down by close to three
on the NASDAQ 100 with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
Hey John, thank you. President Trump is
signing two executive orders to
fasttrack the development of a quantum
computing, including the development of
a quantum computer for scientific
research by 2028. The move is seen as a
national priority and is expected to
lift stocks in the quantum sector.
Qualcomm is in advanced talks to acquire
AI chip startup Modular in a transaction
valuing the company about $4 billion.
Qualcomm is trying to pat out its
product line to better compete with
market leader Nvidia. A transaction
could be announced in the coming weeks.
And in sports, Lionel Messi is now the
all-time leading goalcorer in World Cup
history. After missing a penalty shot
against Austria, Messi scored twice to
power Argentina to a two-nil victory. He
now has five goals in two games so far
in the tournament and 18 alltime in his
World Cup career. And that is your
Bloomberg brief, Tom.
>> Volley, thank you. Over to you,
Cristiano Ronaldo. Portugal playing
Asbekiststan a little bit later this
afternoon. England playing too. Yeah,
look, I think nobody wants to be put up
against Lionel Messi because he's also
so likable. I mean, honestly, he is such
a likable character and he's almost 39
and he's playing at that level.
>> It's pretty incredible, isn't it?
>> Absolutely unbelievable and absolutely
the leader of his team. It is really fun
to watch.
>> Truly phenomenal. Amazing. Up next on
the program, we set you up for the day
ahead. Plus, Brent Shudy of Northwestern
Mutual on the changing nature of AI
investment. A conversation up next with
equities near session lives.
This is a kind of a normal thing with a
market that has been up so much this
year. However, it's kind of the opposite
of a bubble. What we're seeing on both
the S&P and as I mentioned the
information tech sectors is that those
multiples are lower today than where we
were coming into the year. It's been all
driven by earnings. The earnings have
been fantastic. We've heard that point
repeatedly. We heard it again this
morning from Phil Caprony of JP Morgan
Wealth Management. But we've had a
massive move in this market and now
we're taking some back. We're down by
1.4% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ, we're
down by close to three. The opening
about B about 41 minutes away going into
that cash open. Just a note of a few
things you need to look for through
today and through the week at 9:45
Eastern time PMI data. Look out for a
read on the US economy. Later on we'll
hear from the president. Worth looking
out for any headlines you might get
around this deal with Iran and the
amount of energy that's moving through
the straight. Then also later we'll get
earnings from FedEx. So look out for
that too. And then at 7 p.m. we'll hear
from the US Treasury Secretary. He's
speaking at the Economic Club of New
York. Always worth a listen to Scott
Besson. that takes place later tomorrow.
Probably the main event on the earnings
side. Really is the main event on the
earnings side. Micron after the bell
tomorrow. Massive runup in that name.
Given the moves we've seen today, a lot
of weight on the shoulders of that
stock.
>> Yeah. How high are expectations? How
high is the bar for this name given 880%
gains over the past 12 months? And how
much can they lean into the idea that
they are producing that much more of the
most expensive AI tools, some of the
biggest memory chips that go into these
large language models and the uh data
centers to rebut what we've heard over
at SKH Highix.
>> So let's get to the selloff. You see it
in South Korea spills over into Europe
into the US. Equity futures down across
the board on the S&P on the NASDAQ.
We're down by close to 3%. The global
tech selloff gaining some steam going
into the opening bow. Brent Shudy of
Northwestern Mutual writing the
following. We believe the nature of AI
investment is changing. While capital
markets remain open and funding is still
available, that dynamic could change if
financial conditions tighten further.
Brent joins us now for more. Brent,
welcome to the program. Obviously, we've
had a big runup and this is a small move
lower in the context of that massive
runup. But do you see signs right now
that this could be the start of
something bigger?
>> I think you hit the nail on the head
with my opening comments. So, thank you.
This is where I think AI has moved from
being funded out of cash flow, which I
think everyone knows, to now being
subject to lots of debt, lots of equity
just given the uh expensiveness to bring
it to life. And that changes the
ballgame a bit. Um, and that makes it
more economically sensitive, which comes
at a period of time when the Federal
Reserve is contemplating raising
interest rates, which could pull capital
markets back or make them less friendly.
And that's where I think the narrative
has changed a bit. I hear the comment
quite a bit in the opening about
earnings and this being different this
time. I think people have to think about
the sustainability of those earnings.
Think about a company that you just
mentioned that's more of a commodity
type of a product they produce. I've
heard the word insatiable demand, but
capitalism has a way of satiating
demand. Uh and that's where I think
you're seeing improvements in
technology. And this is where I think
the question is what is the
sustainability? And it's not just all
earnings based. There are companies out
there, plenty of them, that are trading
based upon the whatifs of the future.
You've seen nonprofitable tech companies
move up. And that's just where I think
there's quite a bit more risk in the
market today than there were six, nine,
12 months ago.
>> Brent, there's a lot to pick apart
there. How much do you think what we're
seeing right now is truly a realization
in equities that the Fed could raise
rates? I
>> I think a bit although the market's not
pricing in the reality that they're
going to need to raise rates probably
more than 25 basis points. So I think
that's the question and there remains an
open question about whether a worsh Fed
would actually, you know, cut rates or
raise rates enough to actually uh pull
the economy back. I I think the reality
that investors are opening their eyes to
is that over the past couple years the
Fed has cut rates. They've done so
because the labor market has been weak.
Uh and they've done so even though the
other side of their mandate was failing
also which now that the labor market
appears to be healing. Um the question I
think is do they actually raise rates um
because that mandate hasn't been met and
that's where I think the bar is really
low still for investors to kind of
realize they may have to cut our raise
rates by more than 25 basis points which
could bring that economic um cycle into
a bit more jeopardy in the future.
>> So Brent this is important because we
caught up with Kate Mo of city earlier
on this morning and she said the
inflation pressure would actually put
pressure on investors to deploy capital
into any pullbacks in the equity market.
Are you countering that with concern
about inflation leading to higher rates?
>> This this is where look look the the
reality is is that the consumer which is
a large part of the US economy has
slowed quite a bit over the past couple
of quarters and the economy has been
held up right now by AI. You've seen
information processing equipment
intellectual property products drive GDP
all of it for the last two quarters. And
that's where I think that the big
question is what do higher rates do to
the consumer? Uh what does higher
inflation do to the consumer? and and
that's where you've seen that consumer
slow quite a bit uh because of the
reality that real wages have been
negative. Throw in the reality that a
lot of spending has been done from stock
market gains and that's where you have
this circular risk kind of similar to
the circular risk that you have in some
of those financing deals that are
happening in tech and that's where you
know the economy uh is somewhat beholden
right now to what happens in equity
markets just given the fact that the
markets are so much bigger than the
economy and people are spending out of
their equity gains uh and that's where
they've been funding those from
>> true for many people at least Brent
thank you sir appreciate it Brent Shy
there of Northwestern Mutual in this
equity market as we're having this
conversation reflecting on an upgrade a
price target upgrade coming from team
over at Barclays. Vina Krishna and the
team did this back in March, of course,
in the depths of the war. It's a right
call. We had a massive rally off the low
around that time. They've upgraded the
price target again on the S&P 500 to
7,800 from 7650. But if you read through
the note, the quotes I'm seeing from
Barclay's not overwhelmingly bullish.
They're acknowledging some of the risk
out there. For this to gain steam, to
get a bigger move in this equity market,
you're depending on other things.
>> Yeah, this is a show me the money
moment. And that's really what we're
going to see from Micron tomorrow.
Barkley's coming out and saying the
equity bullcase remains intact, but
earnings and AI capex visibility must do
more of the work as Fed support fades
and positioning is less able to dis
absorb disappointment. That's certainly
what we're seeing today with respect to
even a disappointing report out of a
local media outlet in South Korea
potentially triggering what we're seeing
in terms of skepticism.
>> And to your point, Jonathan, this
doesn't feel overwhelmingly bullish.
He's talking about the macro backdrop.
US equities is complex. It's not off to
the races. A lot of things need to go
right and also it makes it a little bit
harder given the Federal Reserve and the
fact that the market has hikes now baked
in.
>> I could feel so much pressure so much
credit you know under massive pressure
in March. Everyone was talking about how
earnings were great like in April but in
March the team over at Barclays were
like look forget the Iran thing. I don't
think it's that important. I know that
became fashionable in the weeks after
that but they were very early with
regards to this rally we saw off the low
in the equity market. One of the key
edges was they understood stock piles
and they understood how long it would
take for those stock piles and the
floating oil.
>> It was a cushion.
>> It was a cushion and at that point that
was why they could get bullish. The idea
that you have to show me the money
though again how high is that bar given
some of the skepticism.
>> And he was one of the first people to
say these stocks will do well maybe
because of what is going on in Iran. But
I remember when he made that call that
my eyes were almost popping out of my
head because you have a serious kinetic
war.
>> I think I almost threw something at him.
I remember I remember the conversation.
>> Yeah. And he said if he was wrong, he'd
come back on. But, you know, he was
right. Good for you.
>> He can come back on. You feeling better
about things now? A little bit more
settled? You sorted out your differences
over baseball?
>> Oh, well, I mean, you didn't have to
like trigger me to start the show.
>> It was a Dan Ives quote. I think he
might be coming on tomorrow, but he
reported that. Okay. Coming up tomorrow,
Tom Becker of Black Rockck, Dan Stroven
of Goldman Sachs, Lyd Cat of Pimco,
Francis Donald of RBC from New York
City. For our audience worldwide, thank
you for choosing Bloomberg TV.